AP®
Calculus BC 2021 Scoring Commentary
Question 2 (continued)
Sample: 2B
Score: 6
The response earned 6 points: 1 point in part (a), 2 points in part (b), and 3 points in part (c). In part (a) the response
earned the first point with the first two lines. The third line correctly simplifies the expression in the second line,
while the first line supports the work leading to the answer. The response did not earn the second point as there is no
answer or work presented for the acceleration vector. In part (b) the response earned the first point in the first line
with the integrand, as it is within a definite integral. The response earned the second point with correct limits on the
integral and the answer 1.010. In part (c) the response earned the first point with the equation on the third line. The
response goes on to make an argument that the x-coordinate is minimized due to the fact that x t    0. This,
however, is a local argument. Thus, the response did not earn the second point. The response earned the third point
with the equations on the fifth and seventh lines. The response earned the fourth point with the correct value of x1
and with the equation on the last line. The response did not earn the final point as no answer or argument is given.
Sample: 2C
Score: 3
The response earned 3 points: 1 point in part (a), 2 points in part (b), and no points in part (c). In part (a) the response
earned the first point with the radical expression on the first line. While the vector presented on the second line is
correct, there is no supporting work; therefore, the response did not earn the second point. In part (b) the response
earned the first point on the first line with an appropriate integrand within a definite integral with numeric limits. As
the limits of this definite integral are correct, the response earned the second point on the second line with the answer
1.0098. In part (c) the response did not earn the first point. While the response notes in the middle paragraph that the
“ x componet of velocity is negative from t  0 to t  1,” no connection is made between the x-component of
“velocity” and xt. The response did not earn the second point as the argument given is local and does not support
the particle being furthest to the left when t  1. While the coordinates presented at the end of the middle paragraph
are correct for the point at t  1, the response earned neither the third nor the fourth points as no supporting work
for either of these coordinates is presented. The response did not earn the fifth point because the statement “the x
value continues to increase to infinity when t  0” contradicts that xt is decreasing from t  0 to t  1.
© 2021 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.