AP®
CALCULUS BC
2012 SCORING COMMENTARY
© 2012 The College Board.
Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org.
Question 6
Overview
This problem presented the Maclaurin series for an infinitely differentiable function g. Part (a) asked students to
use the ratio test to determine the interval of convergence for the given Maclaurin series. Students should have
observed that for 1 x = − and 1, x = the resulting series is alternating with terms decreasing in absolute value to
0. Therefore, the series converges for 1 x = − and 1. x = Part (b) asked students to show that the approximation
for ( ) 1
2
g obtained by using the first two nonzero terms of the series differs from the actual value by less than
1
.
200
Because this is an alternating series with terms decreasing in absolute value to 0, students should have
observed that the absolute value of the third term bounds the error and is strictly less than
1
.
200
Part (c) asked the
students to find the first three nonzero terms and the general term of the Maclaurin series for ( ). g x ′ Students
should have computed the symbolic derivative of the first three nonzero terms and the general term of the series
for ( ). g x
Sample: 6A
Score: 9
The student earned all 9 points.
Sample: 6B
Score: 6
The student earned 6 points: 4 points in part (a), no points in part (b), and 2 points in part (c). In part (a) the
student sets up the ratio correctly, evaluates the limit, finds the interior of the interval of convergence, and
considers the endpoints. The student does not provide a reason for the convergence, so the fifth point in part (a)
was not earned. In part (b) the student does not use the third term as the error bound for the first two terms, so no
points were earned. In part (c) the student’s work is correct.
Sample: 6C
Score: 3
The student earned 3 points: 1 point in part (a), 1 point in part (b), and 1 point in part (c). In part (a) the student
sets up the ratio correctly, so the first point was earned. In part (b) the student selects the third term as the error
bound for the sum of the first two terms, evaluates the third term, but never states that the error is less than
1
.
200
In part (c) the student correctly finds the first three terms but not the general term.