© 2022 College Board.  
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 

 
Based on your experience at the AP® Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer 
teachers to help them improve the student performance on the exam? 

• 
Teachers could continue to emphasize some fine tuning on drawing solution curves—making sure the maximum and 
minimum values on the curve correspond to horizontal slope segments on the slope field. Teachers should also 
emphasize the difference between a family of solutions and a particular solution. 

• 
Teachers can remind students of the need for precise language and provide opportunities for practicing interpretations 
and explanations. Vague use of terms, such as “the function,” or pronouns, such as “it,” must be discouraged. Students 
must be encouraged to provide clear, unambiguous written explanations appropriately referencing each function. 

• 
Students need a lot of practice with solving separable differential equations, particularly those requiring substitution to 
find antiderivatives. Teachers should emphasize the correct time to include the constant of integration and should have 
students practice solving for the solution of such differential equations. 

• 
Teachers should continue to find opportunities to reinforce and practice prerequisite skills, such as the algebra used to 
solve for a particular solution to a separable differential equation.  

What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content and 
skill(s) required on this question? 

• 
Slope fields are considered in Topic 7.3 in the CED and on AP Classroom. AP Daily Video 2 for Topic 7.3 on AP 
Classroom carefully develops understanding and skills associated with this topic. The presenter gives helpful tips about 
using appropriate graphing techniques (skill 4.D), such as making sure that the sketch passes through channels on the 
slope field, where possible, and that the sketch goes from edge to edge. 

• 
Past exam questions are excellent resources for teaching and learning (see “Model Questions” on page 208 of the 
CED). In part (b) of 2022 AB4/BC4, some responses presented mistakes that were also common in part (b) of 2017 
AB4/BC4 (“the potato problem”). Both questions feature the direct use of the given differential equation to find the 
slope of the tangent line, which students sometimes complicated in ways that uncovered gaps in understanding.  

• 
Similar to AB3/BC3, vague references to “it” or “the function” are examples of imprecise mathematical language that 
impaired performance in AB5 part (c). Error analysis (page 206 of the CED) and other strategies involving focused 
student feedback on one another’s writing can help to develop communication skills. 

• 
Some responses to part (d) would have benefited from additional practice with application of differentiation rules. 
Topic 2.5 on AP Classroom includes a Lesson (for teachers) and Handout (for students) entitled Categorizing Functions 
for Derivative Rules. 
 
 
