© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question AB5
Topic: Differential Equation with Slope Field
Max Score: 9
Mean Score: 3.11
What were the responses to this question expected to demonstrate?
In this problem students were given a differential equation ( ) 1
sin 7
2 2
dy
x y
dx
π
= + and told that ( ) y f x = is the particular
solution to the equation with initial condition ( ) 1 2 f = . They are also told that f is defined for all real numbers.
In part (a) a portion of the slope field for this differential equation is shown, and students were asked to sketch the solution
curve through the point (1, 2). A correct response will draw a curve that follows the indicated slope segments in the first and
second quadrants, through the point (1, 2),with minimum and maximum points occurring at horizontal line segments on the
slope field.
In part (b) students were asked to write an equation for the line tangent to the solution curve in part (a) at the point (1, 2) and to
use that equation to approximate ( ) 0.8 f . A correct response would use the given differential equation to find the slope of the
tangent line,
( ) ( ) , 1, 2
3
2 x y
dy
dx =
= , then use this slope and the given point to find a tangent line equation of ( )
3
2 1
2
y =+ x − .
Additionally, the response should substitute 0.8 x = in the tangent line equation to obtain an approximation of ( ) 0.8 1.7 f ≈ .
In part (c) students were told that ( ) 0 f x ′′ > for 1 1 x − ≤ ≤ and asked to reason whether the approximation found in part (b) is
an over- or underestimate for ( ) 0.8 f . A correct response will reason that ( ) 0 f x ′′ > on 1 1 x − ≤ ≤ means f is concave up
on 1 1 x − ≤ ≤ ; therefore, the tangent line lies below the graph of ( ) y f x = , and the approximation is an underestimate of
( ) 0.8 f .
In part (d) students were asked to use separation of variables to find the particular solution ( ) y f x = to the given differential
equation with initial condition ( ) 1 2 f = . A correct response should separate the variables, integrate, use the initial condition
( ) 1 2 f = to determine the value of the constant of integration, and arrive at the solution of ( ) ( )
2
1
3 cos 7
2 2
y
π
π
= − x − .
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skills required on this question?
In part (a) a large majority of the students demonstrated a correct understanding of the relationship between a slope field and a
solution curve for a differential equation through a particular point, although a small number of the responses failed to provide
enough accuracy in the presented solution curve.
In part (b) most responses recognized the need to evaluate the given differential equation at the point (1, 2) in order to find the
slope of the tangent line and then wrote the tangent line equation in point-slope form. Nearly all of the responses that presented
a correct tangent line equation went on to correctly use the equation to approximate ( ) 0.8 f . There were some errors in
simplification when finding the slope or the approximation (errors that could have been avoided by not simplifying).
Part (c) was the most challenging part of this problem for the respondents. Many responses presented the wrong conclusion
(overestimate) because they did not use the given information about the second derivative of f. Other responses that presented
the correct conclusion often supported their conclusion with ambiguous, incomplete, or incorrect reasoning.
In part (d) most students attempted to separate the variables as directed. Some responses were not entirely successful in
separating because of copy errors and/or mishandling the constant. Many responses had difficulty finding the antiderivative of