© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve the student performance on the exam?
• Communication of mathematical results continues to be a problem for many students. This was particularly true in part
(b), where students who used h x ( ) in their responses tended to produce correct and briefer answers more often.
Students who tried to explain their correct answer verbally often entangled themselves in incorrect or nonmathematical
terms, such as “the rate of g is increasing” or “increases more steeply.” Such terms are easily misinterpreted. Teachers
should model using a standard list of mathematical terms to describe the behavior and properties of functions, avoiding
colloquial terms as much as possible.
• Teachers could provide more practice using graphing calculators to store functions in order to easily calculate square
roots, derivatives, integrals, and sums of squares. Students should be encouraged to use given function names when
presenting the expression used in the graphing calculator rather than trying to rewrite the entire function definition, as
this often results in a “copy error.” Because the calculator can find the numerical value of a derivative at a point, that
capability should be used. Teachers should provide numerous situations in which using a calculator is absolutely
necessary and should emphasize the most appropriate ways to use the calculator in addressing these situations.
• Modeling quantities using functions is a fundamental activity in precalculus and calculus. In part (d) most students were
unable to model the cross-sectional area as a function of time because they could not express the cross-sectional area as
a function of the x-coordinate of the cross section or to understand that the x-coordinate was a function of time.
Teachers should provide opportunities for students to use composition of functions to model quantities as functions of
time as they discuss the chain rule and related rates problems.
• Mathematical notation is an ongoing problem. Particularly in part (d), many students introduced variables without
clearly defining them. This made it difficult for them to recognize the connection between their variables and the
functions given in the question. Teachers should model defining variables whenever they are first used in a solution.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content and
skill(s) required on this question?
• As noted in the online resource AP Calculus: Use of Graphing Calculators, (linked here and in the CED), students need
frequent opportunities to practice using their calculators so that they may become adept at their use. This resource
identifies the four graphing calculator capabilities students are expected to be able to use in calculator-active questions
and advises students of the importance of showing the setup for work performed in a calculator, along with the answer.
In part (a), for example, as in all calculator-active questions, a response must include the setup for a calculation
performed in a calculator—in this case, the appropriate definite integral, along with the answer. Because part (a) is
worth three points, presenting an unsupported answer would be a costly mistake.
• The introductions to each unit in the CED are resources for developing conceptual understanding and mastery of the
mathematical practices, as well as preparing for the exam. For example, the “Preparing for the AP Exam” section of the
introduction to Unit 6 of the CED (page 111) addresses issues associated with calculator usage and communication
relevant to AB2, including the need to present setups for calculations and to be careful about parentheses usage and
other details of clear communication.
A complete response to AB2 would need to present ( ) ( ) ( )
2
3.604
B
f x g x dx
−
− = ∫ in part (a), ( ) ( ) 0.5 0.5 f g ′ ′ − − −
(or equivalent) in part (b), ( ) ( ) ( )2
2
5.340
B
f x g x dx
−
− = ∫ in part (c), and the expression ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )2
A x f x g x = − in
part (d). Some students exposed themselves to repeated parentheses errors by substituting expressions for ( ) f x and
( ) g x into one or more of these expressions, as in ( ) 4 3
ln 3 2 x x x + − + . One way to be careful about parentheses
usage (and copy errors) in a calculator-active question is to simply refer to the functions using the names given to you,
rather than by their full analytical expressions.
• AP Daily Videos provided on AP Classroom are very helpful resources for teaching and learning AP Calculus: