© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question BC6
Topic: Series—Interval of Convergence-Alternating Series Error Bound
Max Score: 9
Mean Score: 3.24
What were the responses to this question expected to demonstrate?
In this problem a function f is defined by a power series for all real numbers for which the power series converges.
In part (a) students were asked to use the ratio test to find the interval of convergence for the power series. A correct response
should set up the ratio 1 n
n
a
a
+
and find the limit of this ratio as n → ∞ to find the interior of the interval of convergence. The
response should then use the Alternating Series Test to determine that the series converges for both endpoints of this interval of
convergence.
In part (b) students were asked to justify that ( ) 1 1
2 2 10
f − <
1
. A correct response would recognize that
1
2
is the first term of
the series for ( ) 1
2
f and that the series for f is alternating with terms that decrease in absolute value to 0. Therefore,
( ) 1 1
2 2
f − must be no more than the second term of the series for ( ) 1
2
f , which is
1 1
24 10
< .
In part (c) students were asked to write the first four terms and the general term for an infinite series that represents ( ) f x ′ . A
correct response would differentiate the first four given terms of the series for ( ) f x .
Finally, in part (d) students were asked to use the series from part (c) to find the value of ( ) 1
6
f ′ . A correct response must
recognize that the series for ( ) 1
6
f ′ is geometric with 1 a = and
1
36
r = − . The value of ( ) 1
6
f ′ is the sum of the geometric
series,
36
37
.
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skills required on this question?
In part (a) most responses were able to apply the ratio test and find the interior of the interval of convergence using proper limit
notation. A majority of the responses were able to correctly determine the convergence of the series for at least one of the
endpoints, and nearly all were able to compile their work into an interval of convergence.
In part (b) many responses recognized the need to find the second term of the alternating series as a bound on the error between
( ) 1
2
f and the first term of the series, found the value of the second term, and noted this value was less than
1
10
. Quite a few
responses also identified the series as alternating with terms that decreased to zero, a condition for applying the alternating
series error bound.
In part (c) the vast majority of responses were able to find the first four terms of the series for ( ) f x ′ , although several
responses struggled with differentiating the general term of the series for f in order to find the general term for f ′.
In part (d) some students recognized the series for ( ) 1
6
f ′ as a geometric series, and those that could determine the common
ratio, r, were successful in finding the sum of the series.