© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question AB3/BC3
Topic: Graphical Analysis of Functions
Max Score: 9
Mean Score: AB3 2.36
Mean Score: BC3 4.25
What were the responses to this question expected to demonstrate?
In this problem the graph of a function f ′, which consists of a semicircle and two line segments on the interval 0 7 x ≤ ≤ , is
provided. It is also given that this is the graph of the derivative of a differentiable function f with ( ) 4 3 f = .
In part (a) students were asked to find ( ) 0 f and ( ) 5 f . To find ( ) 0 f a correct response uses geometry and the Fundamental
Theorem of Calculus to calculate the signed area of the semicircle, ( )
4
0
2 f x dx π ′ = − ∫ , and subtracts this value from the initial
condition, ( ) 4 3 f = , to obtain a value of 3 2π + . To find ( ) 5 f a correct response would add the initial condition to the signed
area ( )
5
4
1
2
f x dx ′ = ∫ , found using geometry, to obtain a value of
7
2
.
In part (b) students were asked to find the x-coordinates of all points of inflection on the graph of f for 0 7 x < < and to
justify their answers. A correct response would use the given graph to determine that the graph of ( ) f x ′ changes from
decreasing to increasing, or vice versa, at the points 2 x = and 6 x = . Therefore, these are the inflection points of the graph
of f.
In part (c) students were told that ( ) ( ) g x f x x = − and are asked to determine on which intervals, if any, the function g is
decreasing. A correct response would find that ( ) ( ) 1 g x f x ′ ′ = − and then use the given graph of f ′ to determine that when
0 x ≤ ≤ 5, ( ) ( ) 1 0 f x g x ′ ′ ≤ ⇒ ≤ . Therefore, g is decreasing on the interval 0 5 x ≤ ≤ .
In part (d) students were asked to find the absolute minimum value of ( ) ( ) g x f x x = − on the interval 0 7 x ≤ ≤ . A correct
response would use the work from part (c) to conclude ( ) 0 g x ′ < for 0 5 x < < and ( ) 0 g x ′ > for 5 7 x < < . Thus the
absolute minimum of g occurs at 5 x = . Using the work from part (a), which found the value of ( ) 5 f , the absolute minimum
value of g is ( ) ( )
7 3
5 5 5 5
2 2
g f = − = − = − .
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skills required on this question?
In part (a) most responses recognized the need to calculate areas under the given curve in order to find the requested function
values, and most were able to use geometry to calculate the areas of the relevant regions. However, many responses were not
sure how to incorporate the initial condition, ( ) 4 3 f = , into their calculations.
In part (b) a majority of the responses successfully identified the inflection point at 2 x = ; they were not as successful
recognizing the additional inflection point at 6 x = . Responses that centered their justifications around the behavior of the
graph of f ′ were usually successful.
In part (c) almost all responses were successful in computing ( ) ( ) 1 g x f x ′ ′ = − , and many also reported that g is decreasing
on 0 5 x < < , although they rarely provided a clear explanation of how they found this interval.