© 2022 College Board.  
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 

in part (c) that the continuous function g was 
decreasing on 0
5
x
≤
≤
. 

for 5 ≤
≤
x
7, the absolute minimum of g in the 
interval 0 ≤
≤
x
 
7 must occur at the critical point 
x = 5. 

 
Based on your experience at the AP® Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer 
teachers to help them improve the student performance on the exam? 

• 
Teachers could provide practice with problems involving a graphical stem, requiring students to appeal directly to the 
given graph using the name of the given function in each reference. Responses must not be ambiguous when it comes to 
which function or graph is being discussed. 

• 
Teachers could provide specific examples of correct global arguments that can be used to justify absolute extrema and 
have students practice giving both these global arguments and arguments using the Candidates Test. It would be helpful 
to provide multiple opportunities for students to identify the differences between local and global arguments and when 
each is appropriate. 

What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content and 
skill(s) required on this question? 

• 
In AB3/BC3, students needed to identify mathematical information in the given graph (skill 2.B). Noting that this was 
the graph of f ′, the derivative of f , was necessary for students to identify the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus as 
the appropriate theorem to apply (skill 3.B). Perhaps most important in this question, students needed to be able to 
describe the relationships among different representations of functions and their derivatives (skill 2.E). A table of 
instructional strategies to help develop skills within Mathematical Practice 2, Connecting Representations, is provided 
on page 216 of the CED. Regular practice with the sample activity provided for skill 2.E would help students to develop 
the pre-reading skills needed to set up successful solutions to questions similar to AB3/BC3. 

• 
In all parts of this question, students needed to be able to interpret the behavior of a function, f , based on the graph of 
its derivative, f ′ (see Topic 6.5, CED and AP Classroom). 

• Video 1 in Topic 6.5 helps students to recognize various presentations of the same mathematical task: analysis 
of a function based on information about its derivative function. This video considers three related examples of 
multiple-choice questions: In the first, we are given the graph of f and an accumulation function, g, whose 
derivative is f ; in the second, we are given the graph of f , which is identified as the accumulation function 
itself; and in the third, an initial value question is framed within the context of particle motion, given an 
expression for velocity. If the velocity expression in the third example is understood to be analogous to the 
graph of f ′ in AB3/BC3, the approach in the video is the same as the approach to part (a). 

• Video 2 in Topic 6.5 begins by reviewing important information from Topics 5.6 and 5.9 concerning 
conclusions about the concavity and points of inflection of a function, f , that can be reasoned based on 
information about its derivative, f ′. This information is needed to answer part (b) of AB3/BC3. 

• Under “More Resources” in Topic 6.5 on AP Central, you may find a Lesson (for teachers) and Handout (for 
students) to develop understanding and mastery of relevant topics and skills: Justifying Behavior of 
( )
f x from 
a graph of 
( )
f
x
′
. 

 
 
