© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve the student performance on the exam?
• Teachers should emphasize the differences and similarities among integrands for areas, cross-sectional volumes, and
rotational volumes. Students should be encouraged to carefully read prompts to ensure they are working with the
correct integrand in each situation.
• Teachers could provide significant practice integrating by parts, expecting a clear delineation of both u and dv.
Students should be required to provide unambiguous communication, including appropriate labels on intermediate
steps, particularly if they are using a table. Additionally, teachers should look for ways to help students recognize
situations when a particular technique of integration (substitution, by parts, etc.) is appropriate.
• Teachers could provide more demonstrations of and practice with using correct limit notation in evaluating improper
integrals, making sure to carry the correct notation throughout the problem. Teachers should stress writing clear and
logical mathematical work, paying particular attention to expressions involving limits and the proper placement of
bounds of integration.
• Teachers should repeatedly provide opportunities for students to practice working with fractional exponents and
simplifying nested algebraic expressions.
• Teachers should avoid using arithmetic with ∞ and not allow this on the part of their students.
• Although teachers may require simplification of algebraic and numerical expressions in their classrooms, they should
remind students this is not necessary on the free-response section of the AP Exam and is perhaps costly in terms of time
and errors. Teachers should provide practice AP Exams where students are encouraged not to simplify their numerical
answers.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content and
skill(s) required on this question?
• In part (a) some responses offered evidence of confusion regarding area and volume formulas. While memorizing
formulas is a time-honored practice, understanding where they come from and what they mean represents deeper and
more durable learning. Videos in Topic 8.4 on AP Classroom develop the content and skills needed to answer the
question in part (a). At least as important, subsequent videos developing content for later topics revisit the idea of
building an integrand for an area (or a volume or a length) and integrating to determine the sum of infinitely many such
components. (For example, see Video 1 from Topic 8.7.)
• On a similar note, some responses attempting to present algorithmic methods to perform integration by parts in
part (b) fell short of communicating the use of the relevant integration technique. The tabular method, for example, may
be used to show integration by parts, but only if the technique is made evident by clear labels. Video 1 from Topic 6.11
on AP Classroom introduces integration by parts and builds understanding by connecting the technique to the product
rule for derivatives. Video 2 from Topic 6.11 offers much-needed additional practice with integration by parts. Video 3
from 6.11 illustrates how to apply integration by parts using a table of selected values for a particular function.
• In part (c) a response must write an appropriate improper integral for a solid of revolution for the unbounded region W
and correctly use limits to evaluate the improper integral. Video 1 in Topic 6.13 on AP Classroom introduces improper
integrals and demonstrates how to correctly use limits to evaluate a convergent improper integral. Video 2 in Topic 6.13
on AP Classroom provides additional opportunities to practice these techniques.