© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question AB2
Topic: Area-Volume with Related Rates
Max Score: 9
Mean Score: 3.34
What were the responses to this question expected to demonstrate?
In this problem students were provided graphs of the functions ( ) ( ) ln 3 f x x = + and ( ) 4 3
2 g x x x = + and told that the
graphs intersect at 2 x = − and x B = , where 0 B > .
In part (a) students were asked to find the area of the region enclosed by the graphs of f and g. A correct response provides
the setup of the definite integral of ( ) ( ) f x g x − from 2 x = − to x B = . The response must determine the value of B
(although this value need not be presented) and then use this value to evaluate the integral and find an area of 3.604.
In part (b) the function ( ) h x is defined to be the vertical distance between the graphs of f and g, and students were asked to
reason whether h is increasing or decreasing at 0.5 x = − . A correct response would recognize that the vertical distance
between the graphs of f and g is ( ) ( ) f x g x − and then evaluate the derivative ( ) ( ) ( ) h x f x g x ′ ′ ′ = − at x = −0.5. Because
this value is negative, the response should conclude that h is decreasing when 0.5 x = − .
In part (c) students were told that the region enclosed by the graphs of f and g is the base of a solid with cross sections of the
solid taken perpendicular to the x-axis that are squares. Students were asked to find the volume of the solid. A correct response
would realize that the area of a cross section is ( ) ( ) ( )2
f x g x − and would find the requested volume by integrating this area
from 2 x = − to x B = .
In part (d) students were told that a vertical line in the xy -plane travels from left to right along the base of the solid described in
part (c) at a constant rate of 7 units per second. Students were asked to find the rate of change of the area of the cross section
above the vertical line with respect to time when the vertical line is at position 0.5 x = − . A correct response would again use
the area function from part (c), ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )2
A x f x g x = − and the chain rule to find ( ) [ ] d dA dx
A x
dt dx dt
⋅ = . The response should
then use a calculator to find ( ) 0.5 A′ − and multiply this value by the given value of 7
dx
dt
= .
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skills required on this question?
In part (a) most responses showed familiarity with the computation of the area between the curves. Only a few responses
reversed the integrand, writing ( ) ( ) g x f x − instead of ( ) ( ) f x g x − . A few responses unnecessarily divided the area into
multiple pieces and used definite integrals to find each area separately. Almost all responses that presented a correct definite
integral evaluated the integral correctly (using a calculator). Many responses did calculate or present a correct value for the
upper limit of integration, B.
In part (b) most responses interpreted the vertical distance correctly as ( ) ( ) f x g x − , although frequently they did not denote
this distance as ( ) h x in their explanations. Responses that considered the value of ( ) 0.5 h′ − directly using their calculators or
considered ( ) ( ) 0.5 0.5 f g ′ ′ − − − were generally successful in explaining that the vertical distance was decreasing when
0.5 x = − . Responses that attempted to compare ( ) f x ′ and ( ) g x ′ verbally sometimes made errors in their explanations by not
referencing 0.5 x = − or by not clearly linking their explanation with calculus concepts.
In part (c) a majority of the responses demonstrated an understanding of how to find volumes of solids with given cross
sections. Almost all responses that presented a correct definite integral evaluated it correctly, but as in part (a), errors in