© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
o Some assumed 2 r = h, obtaining
2
4
dV dh
h
dt dt
π = .
o Some assumed either r or h was a constant.
• Some responses failed to realize that the height
decreasing at a rate of 2 cm per day meant
2
dh
dt
= − and instead used the value 2
dh
dt
= .
• ( )( )( ) ( ) ( ) 2
3
2 1
100 50 5 100 2
3 3 t
dV
dt
π π
=
= − + −
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve the student performance on the exam?
• Whenever appropriate, teachers should include units, providing students experiences in dimensional analysis.
• Teachers could provide students with a variety of examples and experiences with related rates problems—some of
which require differentiating functions of one variable, others needing to differentiate functions of two independent
variables. Students need practice recognizing when no functional relationship exists between variables (requiring the
use of the product or quotient rule to differentiate) and when there is such a functional relationship that can be used to
simplify an expression before differentiating.
• Writing succinct, clear mathematical justifications is a skill that students need to practice. Teachers should provide
opportunities for students to practice writing such justifications clearly and correctly, showing students why certain
parts of a justification are mathematically necessary.
• Although teachers are wise to require simplification of algebraic and numerical expressions in their own classrooms,
they should remind students this is not necessary on the free-response section of the AP Exam.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content and
skill(s) required on this question?
• Skills associated with Mathematical Practice 4, Communication and Notation, were especially important in AB4/BC4.
Suggested instructional strategies to develop these skills begin on page 219 of the CED. The strategy “Error Analysis,”
which is described on page 206 of the CED, would be helpful in developing skill 4.B (Use appropriate units) and skill
4.A (Use precise mathematical language). Increased proficiency in skill 4.B would have helped students who missed
the units in part (a). In part (b) vague references to “it” or “the function” are examples of imprecise mathematical
language that impaired performance. Error analysis would also be useful in developing mastery of skill 3.C (Confirm
whether hypotheses or conditions of a selected definition, theorem, or test have been satisfied), which would have
improved performance on part (b).
• Part (d) assesses understanding of related rates problems (see Topics 4.4 and 4.5 in the CED and on AP Classroom) and
application of differentiation rules (see Units 2 and 3 in the CED and on AP Classroom).
o Although the question gives the appropriate formula for the volume of a cone in terms of its radius and height,
some students made an incorrect attempt to simplify the expression by assuming that the relationship between
r and h when r = 100 cm and 50 cm h = was generally true ( 2 r h = ). This error might represent a case of
mistakenly thinking that this problem is analogous to one involving a draining conical tank, whose radius and
height are confined to a given ratio by the tank, a contextual circumstance that is not true in the case of the
melting ice sculpture. In Topic 4.5 on AP Classroom (and in the CED), a Lesson (for teachers) and Handout
(for students) entitled Analyzing Problems Involving Related Rates is provided. This resource might help to
develop the understanding and skills needed to solve related rates problems.
o Video 2 in Topic 4.5 on AP Classroom provides examples of related rates problems involving volume. The first
example in this video is of a volume whose shape is confined by a cubical tank and the second example is of a