• Some responses recognized that the series for
1
f ′(6)
was geometric but were unable to determine r, the ratio
of the series.
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve the student performance on the exam?
• Teachers should provide practice in setting up the ratio when applying the ratio test to determine an interval or radius of
convergence. In particular, students should practice writing term ( ) 1 n + , given term n. Students should be required to
use correct limit notation throughout the process of finding an interval or radius of convergence.
• Teachers should be diligent in using absolute values whenever appropriate and should require students to use them as
well, never omitting them without explanation.
• Teachers should allow adequate class time to emphasize the conditions necessary to apply various convergence tests for
a series.
• It would help to provide students with multiple representations of series to enable them to recognize special series
(geometric, harmonic, etc.) and to become more fluid with notation.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content and
skill(s) required on this question?
• In part (a) the question prompted respondents to use the ratio test. Although most were able to apply the ratio test to
find the interior of the interval of convergence, some had difficulty with one or more components of applying the ratio
test, suggesting a thinner understanding or weaker mastery of the content and skills associated with Topics 10.8 and
10.13, two of the last topics in the course. The video associated with Topic 10.8 on AP Classroom does a nice job
introducing the ratio test. Videos 1 and 2 from Topic 10.13 build on understandings of the ratio test to consider the
radius and interval of convergence of power series.
• As mentioned in notes for BC2, the general instructions are a useful resource to use with students all year long. Of
special relevance to part (b) of BC6 was the passage relating to justification: “Justifications require that you give
mathematical reasons, and that you verify the needed conditions under which relevant theorems, properties, definitions,
or tests are applied.” In part (b) of BC6, a response needed to show that the alternating series error bound formula
applies by verifying that the terms of the series for ( ) 1
2
f decrease in absolute value to 0.
• Understandably, in part (c) some students had difficulty deriving the general term of the series for ( ) f x ′ . Video 1 in
Topic 10.15 on AP Classroom does a very nice job of taking students through the steps they will need to take to
differentiate the general term of a power series.
• Video 1 from Topic 10.2 on AP Classroom is a helpful resource to develop the understanding of geometric series and
practice the skills needed to evaluate such series. One point that is made in the video is that methods for evaluating a
convergent series in AP Calculus BC are rare. In fact, if asked to find the value of a series at a point in AP Calculus BC,
the correct response will involve using content and skills about geometric series.
Beyond the scope of this course, there are other ways to evaluate series. Some of these are presented in the Unit 10
University Faculty Lecture, found on the Overview tab on AP Classroom.
© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.