AP®
Calculus BC 2022 Scoring Commentary
Question 6 (continued)
Sample: 6B
Score: 4
The response earned 4 points: 2 points in part (a), 1 point in part (b), 1 point in part (c), and no points in part (d).
In part (a) the response earned the first point in the second line by presenting the correct ratio. The response did
not earn the second point because an incorrect interval is presented. The response presents the only other eligible
interval of 0 < x < 1 and, therefore, is eligible for the third point. The response earned the third point by
evaluating the general term at x = 1. The response did not earn the fourth point because the interval of
convergence is incorrect.
In part (b) the response earned the first point by using the second term evaluated at
1
2
. The response did not earn
the second point because there is no reference to this as an alternating series whose terms decrease to 0.
In part (c) the response did not earn the first point because the terms are not all correct. The response earned the
second point because the general term is correct.
In part (d) the response does not present the correct answer and did not earn the point.
Sample: 6C
Score: 2
The response earned 2 points: 1 point in part (a), no points in part (b), 1 point in part (c), and no points in part (d).
In part (a) the response earned the first point by presenting the correct ratio. The response did not earn the second
point because there is no limit notation. The response did not earn the third point because the general term is
incorrectly evaluated at both x = 1 and x = −1. The response did not earn the fourth point because the interval of
convergence is incorrect.
In part (b) the response did not earn the first point because the incorrect term is used. The response is not eligible
for the second point.
In part (c) the response earned the first point by presenting the correct first four nonzero terms. The response did
not earn the second point because the general term is incorrect.
In part (d) the response does not present the correct answer and did not earn the point.
© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.