AP®
Calculus AB/BC 2022 Scoring Commentary
Question 4
Note: Student samples are quoted verbatim and may contain spelling and grammatical errors.
Overview
In this problem the melting of an ice sculpture can be modeled as a cone that maintains a conical shape as it
decreases in size. The radius of the base of the cone is a twice-differentiable function r(t) measured in centimeters,
with time t, 0 ≤ ≤ t 12, in days. Selected values of r′( ) t are provided in a table.
In part (a) students were asked to approximate r′′(8.5) using the average rate of change of r′ over the interval
7 ≤ ≤ t 10 and to provide correct units. A correct response should estimate the value using a difference quotient,
drawing from the data in the table that most tightly bounds t = 8.5. The response should include units of
centimeters per day per day.
In part (b) students were asked to justify whether there is a time t, 0 ≤ t 3 ≤ , for which the rate of change of r is
equal to −6. A correct response will use the Intermediate Value Theorem, first noting that the conditions for
applying this theorem are met—specifically that r′( ) t is continuous because r(t) is twice-differentiable and that
−6 is bounded between the values of r′(0) and r′(3) given in the table. Therefore, by the Intermediate Value
Theorem, there is a time t such that 0 < < t 3, with r t ′( ) = −6.
In part (c) students were asked to use a right Riemann sum and the subintervals indicated by the table to approximate
the value of ∫
12
r′(t) dt
0
. A correct response should present the sum of the four products ∆ti ⋅r t ′( i ) drawn from the
table and obtain an approximation value of −51.
In part (d) students were told that the height of the cone decreases at a rate of 2 centimeters per day and that at time
t = 3 the radius of the cone is 100 cm and the height is 50 cm. They are asked to find the rate of change of the
volume of the cone with respect to time at time t = 3 days. A correct response will use the product and chain rules
to differentiate the given function for the volume of a cone,
1
V = πr h 2
3
, and then evaluate the resulting derivative
using values
dh dr
r = 100, h = 50, = −2, and = −5
dt t=3 dt t=3
(from the table) to obtain a rate of
70,000π
−
3
cubic centimeters per day.
Sample: 4A
Score: 9
The response earned 9 points: 2 points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and 3 points in part (d).
In part (a) the response would have earned the first point with the expression
−3.8 − (−4.4)
3
in line 1, with no
simplification. In this case, correct simplification to the boxed answer of 0.2 in line 2 earned the first point. The
response earned the second point for the correct units presented in the boxed answer in line 2.
© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.