AP®
Calculus AB/BC 2022 Scoring Commentary
Question 4 (continued)
In part (b) the response earned the first point with the statements given in the last three lines, which place the value
−6 between the values of −5.0 and −6.1. The response earned the second point with the statements in lines 1
through 5, concluding that r′( ) t is continuous because r′( ) t is differentiable. The response names the Intermediate
Value Theorem, which is not required but is correct.
In part (c) the response earned the first point with the sum of products expression given in line 1. The response
would have also earned the second point for this expression in line 1, with no further simplification. In this case,
correct simplification to the boxed answer of −51 in line 6 earned the second point.
In part (d) the response earned the first and second points with the correct
dV
dt
expression given in line 2. The
response would have also earned the third point for the correct evaluation of this expression given in line 3, with no
further simplification. In this case, correct simplification presented in the boxed answer in line 6 earned the third
point.
Sample: 4B
Score: 5
The response earned 5 points: 2 points in part (a), no points in part (b), 1 point in part (c), and 2 points in part (d).
In part (a) the response would have earned the first point with the expression
−3.8 − −4.4
10 − 7
at the beginning of line
1, with no simplification. In this case, correct simplification to the boxed answer of
1
5
at the end of line 1 earned
the first point. The response earned the second point for the correct units presented in the boxed answer in line 1.
In part (b) the response does not establish that −6 is between r′(0) and r′(3); thus, it did not earn the first point.
The response did not earn the second point because the conclusion of “NO” is incorrect.
In part (c) the response earned the first point with the sum of products given in line 1. The response would have
also earned the second point for this expression in line 1, with no further simplification. In this case, the response
did not earn the second point because of an incorrect simplification to −37.0.
In part (d) the response earned the first and second points with the correct expression for
dV
dt
given on line 3. The
response did not earn the third point because this expression was never evaluated.
Sample: 4C
Score: 3
The response earned 3 points: 1 point in part (a), 1 point in part (b), 1 point in part (c), and no points in part (d).
In part (a) the response would have earned the first point with the expression
−3.8 − (−4.4)
10 − 7
in line 1, with no
simplification. In this case, correct simplification to the final answer of 0.2 at the end of line 1 earned the first
point. The response does not present correct units, so it did not earn the second point.
© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.