Return to
Table of Contents
Learning Objectives Essential Knowledge
Mathematical Practices
forAP Calculus
LO 3.2C: Calculate a definite
integral using areas and
properties of definite integrals.
EK 3.2C1: In some cases, a definite
integral can be evaluated by using
geometry and the connection between
the definite integral and area.
LO 3.2C: Calculate a definite
integral using areas and
properties of definite integrals.
EK 3.2C2: Properties of definite integrals include
the integral of a constant times a function,
the integral of the sum of two functions,
reversal of limits of integration, and the
integral of a function over adjacent intervals.
LO 3.3B(b): Evaluate
definite integrals.
EK 3.3B5:Techniques for finding antiderivatives
include algebraic manipulation such as long
division and completing the square, substitution
of variables, (BC) integration by parts, and
nonrepeating linear partial fractions.
To answer Question 2 successfully, students must apply the Mathematical Practices
for AP Calculus as described below:
▶ ▶ Reason with definitions and theorems (MPAC 1) by applying the Fundamental
Theorem of Calculus and the concept of area to find the integral over specific
intervals.
▶ ▶ Confirm that the hypotheses have been satisfied when applying L’Hospital’s rule
to find a limit. Correctly using L’Hospital’s rule involves manipulating algebraic
(MPAC 3) quantities.
▶ ▶ Connect the concepts (MPAC 2) of a function and its derivative to identify a
maximum value and to determine concavity, and connect the concepts (MPAC 2) of
continuity and limit to find .
▶ ▶ Connect the graphical representation (MPAC 4) of a function to the words
describing certain attributes of the function and to a symbolic description involving
the function.
▶ ▶ Extract information from the graph of to compute (MPAC 3) definite integrals
for f and h over specified intervals.
▶ ▶ Build notational fluency (MPAC 5) when using integration by substitution to
find the integral of over an interval, including adjusting the
endpoints of the interval.
▶ ▶ Clearly communicate (MPAC 6) the justification for why a critical point is a relative
maximum and indicate the direction of concavity.
© 2016 The College Board 21
Sample Questions AP Calculus AB/BC Exam