Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.	
5

© 2026 College Board.

AP CALCULUS BC 2026 n FREE-RESPONSE QUESTIONS

CALCULUS BC

SECTION II PART B

TIME – 1 HOUR

Directions: 

Section II, Part B has 4 free-response questions and lasts 1 hour. 

A calculator is not allowed for this part of the exam. 

You may use the available paper for scratch work and planning, but only work written in the free-
response booklet will be scored. Any work done on scratch paper will not be scored. In the free-
response booklet, write your solution to each part of each question in the space provided for that 
part. For questions that have sub-parts, be sure to label those clearly in your solution. Use a pencil 
or a pen with black or dark blue ink. 

Show all of your work, even though a question may not explicitly remind you to do so. Clearly label 
any functions, graphs, tables, or other objects that you use. Justifications require that you give 
mathematical reasons and that you verify the needed conditions under which relevant theorems, 
properties, definitions, or tests are applied. Your work will be scored on the correctness and 
completeness of your methods as well as your answers. Answers without supporting work will 
usually not receive credit. 

Your work must be expressed in standard mathematical notation rather than calculator syntax. For 

example, 
x dx
2
1

5y
 may not be written as 
X ,
, ,1 5
fnInt
X
2
^
h. 

Unless otherwise specified, answers (numeric or algebraic) need not be simplified. If you use 
decimal approximations in calculations, your work will be scored on accuracy. Unless otherwise 
specified, your final answers should be accurate to three places after the decimal point. 

Unless otherwise specified, the domain of a function f is assumed to be the set of all real numbers x 
for which  f x
^ h is a real number. 

You can go back and forth between questions in this part until time expires. The clock will turn red 
when 5 minutes remain—the proctor will not give you any time updates or warnings.
