Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 2
© 2026 College Board.
AP CALCULUS BC 2026 n FREE-RESPONSE QUESTIONS
CALCULUS BC
SECTION II PART A
TIME – 30 MINUTES
Directions:
Section II, Part A has 2 free-response questions and lasts 30 minutes.
A graphing calculator is required for the questions on this part of the exam. You may use
a handheld graphing calculator or the calculator available in this application. Make sure your
calculator is in radian mode.
You may use the available paper for scratch work and planning, but only work written in the free-
response booklet will be scored. Any work done on scratch paper will not be scored. In the free-
response booklet, write your solution to each part of each question in the space provided for that
part. For questions that have sub-parts, be sure to label those clearly in your solution. Use a pencil
or a pen with black or dark blue ink.
You are permitted to use your calculator to solve an equation, find the derivative of a function at
a point, or calculate the value of a definite integral. However, you must clearly indicate the setup
of your question, namely the equation, function, or integral you are using. If you use other built-in
features or programs, you must show the mathematical steps necessary to produce your results.
Show all of your work, even though a question may not explicitly remind you to do so. Clearly label
any functions, graphs, tables, or other objects that you use. Justifications require that you give
mathematical reasons and that you verify the needed conditions under which relevant theorems,
properties, definitions, or tests are applied. Your work will be scored on the correctness and
completeness of your methods as well as your answers. Answers without supporting work will
usually not receive credit.
Your work must be expressed in standard mathematical notation rather than calculator syntax. For
example, x dx 2
1
5
y may not be written as X ,X, , 1 5 fnInt 2 ^ h.
Unless otherwise specified, answers (numeric or algebraic) need not be simplified. If you use
decimal approximations in calculations, your work will be scored on accuracy. Unless otherwise
specified, your final answers should be accurate to three places after the decimal point.
Unless otherwise specified, the domain of a function f is assumed to be the set of all real numbers x
for which f x ^ h is a real number.
You can go back and forth between questions in this part until time expires. The clock will turn red
when 5 minutes remain—the proctor will not give you any time updates or warnings.
Note: This exam was originally administered digitally. It is presented here in a format optimized for
teacher and student use in the classroom.