AP®
CALCULUS BC
2013 SCORING COMMENTARY
© 2013 The College Board.
Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org.
Question 4
Overview
This problem described a function f that is defined and twice differentiable for all real numbers, and for which
  8 4. f  The graph of   y f x   on   0, 8 is given, along with information about locations of horizontal
tangent lines for the graph of f  and the areas of the regions between the graph of f  and the x-axis over this
interval. Part (a) asked for all values of x in the interval   0, 8 at which f has a local minimum. Students needed
to recognize that this occurs where f  changes sign from negative to positive. Part (b) asked for the absolute
minimum value of f on the interval   0, 8 . Students needed to use the information about the areas provided with
the graph, as well as   8 , f to evaluate   f x at 0 and at the local minimum found in part (a). Part (c) asked for
the open intervals on which the graph of f is both concave down and increasing. Students needed to recognize
that this is given by intervals where the graph of f  is both decreasing and positive. Students were to determine
these intervals from the graph. Part (d) introduced a new function g defined by      3
, g x f x  and included
that   5
3 .
2
f   Students were asked to find the slope of the line tangent to the graph of g at 3. x  Students
needed to recognize that this slope is given by   3 . g In order to determine this value, students needed to apply
the chain rule correctly and read the value of   3 f  from the graph.
Sample: 4A
Score: 9
The student earned all 9 points.
Sample: 4B
Score: 6
The student earned 6 points: 1 point in part (a), 1 point in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and 2 points in part (d). In
part (a) the student’s work is correct. In part (b) the student earned the point for considering 0 x  and 6. x 
The student does not report a correct answer and was not eligible for the justification point. In part (c) the
student’s work is correct. In part (d) the student earned the 2 points for   g x  but did not earn the answer point.
Sample: 4C
Score: 3
The student earned 3 points: 1 point in part (a) and 2 points in part (c). In part (a) the student’s work is correct. In
part (b) the student does not consider 0 x  and 6, x  does not find the answer, and is not eligible for the
justification point. In part (c) the student’s work is correct. In part (d) the student makes a chain rule error in the
derivative and did not earn the answer point.