AP®
CALCULUS BC
2015 SCORING COMMENTARY
© 2015 The College Board.
Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org.
Question 2
Overview
In this problem students were given the velocity vector of a particle moving in the xy-plane with position
( ) ( ) ( ) , . x t y t The particle is at the point ( ) 3, 5 at time 1. t = In part (a) students had to find the x-coordinate of
the position of the particle at time 2. t = The x-coordinate of the position of the particle at 1 t = added to the net
change from 1 t = to 2 t = produces the x-coordinate at 2, t = which is ( ) ( )
2 2
1
1 cos . x t dt + ∫ Students were
expected to evaluate this expression with the calculator. In part (b) students were given that there is a point on the
curve at which the line tangent to the curve has a slope of 2. Students needed to find the time at which the particle
was at that point. Students had to realize that
dy dt dy
dx dx dt
= and then solve the equation 2
dy
dx
= using the
calculator. In part (c) students were asked to find the time at which the speed of the particle is 3. Students needed
to solve the equation ( ) ( )
2 2
3
dy dx
dt dt
+ = using the calculator. In part (d) students were asked to find the total
distance traveled by the particle from time 0 t = to time 1. t = Students needed to set up the integral expression
( ) ( )
1 2 2
0
dy dx
dt
dt dt
+
⌠

⌡
and then evaluate this expression using the calculator.
Sample: 2A
Score: 9
The response earned all 9 points.
Sample: 2B
Score: 6
The response earned 6 points: 2 points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), 1 point in part (c), and 1 point in part (d). In
part (a) the student presents a definite integral equal to the change in the x-coordinate of the particle from time 1 t =
to 2, t = so the first point was earned. The student presents the correct use of the initial condition, so the second
point was earned. The student does not state the correct answer. In part (b) the student’s work is correct. In part (c)
the student presents an expression for the speed in terms of t set equal to the given speed of 3, so the first point was
earned. The student does not state the correct answer to three decimal places, so the second point was not earned. In
part (d) the student presents a definite integral equal to the distance the particle traveled from time 0 t = to 1, t = so
the first point was earned. The student does not state an answer.
Sample: 2C
Score: 3
The response earned 3 points: no points in part (a), 1 point in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and no points in part (d).
In part (a) the student does not present an integral, so the first point was not earned. The student attempts to anti-
differentiate ( ) 2
cos . t Neither the second nor third points were earned. In part (b) the student presents a correct
expression for slope in terms of t, so the first point was earned. The student does not state the correct answer. In
part (c) the student’s work is correct. In part (d) the student presents a definite integral whose integrand does not
represent the speed of the particle.