AP®
Calculus AB/BC 2024 Scoring Commentary
© 2024 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question 4 (continued)
because g′( ) x , the slope of g x ( ), equals 0 at x = 4.” The response continues correctly to refer to the fact that
g′(x) = f (x) by the FTC.
In part (c) the response earned the first point on the second line with the intermediate step indicating that
h f (6) = (6) − ( 6) f − . The response earned the second point by correctly linking the above work with the
numerical value − − 1 0.5 =−1.5. Note that the expression − − 1 0.5 appropriately linked to h(6) would have
earned both the first two points. The response earned the third point on the third line with the conclusion on the
penultimate line that ( )
1
h′ 6 = −
2
with the supporting work on the line above indicating that h x ′( ) = f ( ) x ′ . The
response earned the fourth point on the last line with the conclusion h′′(6) = 0.
Sample: 4B
Score: 6
The response earned 6 points: 2 points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), and 2 points in part (c).
In part (a) the response did not earn the first point as the answer presented for g(−6) at the end of the first line is
12, which is incorrect. The response would have earned the second and third points with the 4 and 3, presented
at the ends of lines two and three, unsupported. Because support is presented, that support must be correct to earn
each point. The supporting work on lines two and three is correct, thus the second and third points were earned.
In part (b) the response earned the first point with the equation on the second line. This is then reinforced on the
third line with the indication that g′ is 0 where f is 0. Note that although there is a difference between the
independent variables presented with the above functions, this point is earned for correctly identifying the
relationship between g and f via the FTC, as this response has done. The response earned the second point with
the conclusion on the last two lines that “ g(x) has a critical point at x = 4” and the supporting reason that g′ is
0 at x = 4.
In part (c) the response did not earn the first point as the presentation on the first line that h(6) is f ′(6) − ( ) 6 f ′ − is
incorrect. The response did not earn the second point as the value presented for h(6) is incorrect. The response
earned the third point on the penultimate line with the conclusion that
1
h f ′ ′ (6 6 ) = ( ) = −
2
. Note here that the
intermediate step 6 h′(6) = ( ) f ′ is necessary to earn the third point. It would have also sufficed to present
h x ′( ) = f ( ) x ′ to justify a correct evaluation of h′(6). The response earned the fourth point with the correct
conclusion that h′′(6) is 0.
Sample: 4C
Score: 3
The response earned 3 points: 1 point in part (a), no points in part (b), and 2 points in part (c).
In part (a) the response did not earn the first point as the first statement that ∫
−6
f t ( ) = 12
0
is not true. Note that as
this response does not label the three answers, it is assumed that they are in the order presented in the question.
The response earned the second point on the second line with the statement ∫
4
f t ( ) = 4
0
. The response did not
earn the third point as the answer of 5 presented is not correct.