 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 
 

AP® Calculus AB/BC 2022 Scoring Commentary 

Question 1 (continued) 

In part (d) the response earned the first point with the equation on the left side of line 1. The middle expression, 
“ A( t) − 400, ” of the equation is not needed to earn that point. The second point was earned with the values at the 
end of line 1 and line 2. The third point was earned in line 2 of the sentence on the right by identifying 71. The 
Candidates Test table on the left side earned the fourth point. The sentence on the right is consistent with the 
information in the Candidates Test table. 

Sample: 1B 
Score: 6 

The response earned 6 points: 1 point in part (a), 2 points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and 1 point in part (d). 

In part (a) the response earned the point with the definite integral presented in line 1. 

In part (b) the response earned the first point for the expression in line 1. The second point was earned for the 
correct value in line 2. 

In part (c) the response earned the first point for the left side of the equation in line 2. The second point was 
earned with the concluding sentence. 

In part (d) the response earned the first point with the equation on the left in line 3. The second point was not 
earned because the value of 3.598 is never given. The third point was not earned because there is no value given 
for N(3.598). The fourth point was not earned because no justification is presented. 

Sample: 1C 
Score: 3 

The response earned 3 points: 1 point in part (a), no points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and no points in 
part (d). 

In part (a) the response earned the point with the definite integral presented in line 1. The definite integral in line 2 
is not necessary. 

In part (b) the response did not earn the first point because the integrand given in line 1 after the crossed-out work 
is A t
′( ) and not A(t). Because the integrand presented is A′( )t the response is not eligible to earn the second 
point. 

In part (c) the response earned the first point with the statement “ A t
′( ) is positive @ t = 1” in line 1. The second 
point was earned in line 1 with the prior words: “increasing because A t
′( ) is positive @ t = 1. ” 

In part (d) the response did not earn any points because no correct work is presented. 

© 2022 College Board.  
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 
