AP®
Calculus AB/BC 2021 Scoring Commentary
© 2021 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question 1
Note: Student samples are quoted verbatim and may contain spelling and grammatical errors.
Overview
The context of this problem is bacteria in a circular petri dish. The increasing, differentiable function f gives the
density of the bacteria population (in milligrams per square centimeter) at a distance r centimeters from the center
of the dish. Selected values of f r are provided in a table.
In part (a) students were asked to use the table to estimate f 2.25 and interpret the meaning of this value in
context, using correct units. A correct response should estimate the derivative value using a difference quotient,
drawing from the data in the table that most tightly bounds r  2.25. The interpretation should explain that when
r  2.25 centimeters from the center of the petri dish, the density of the bacteria population is increasing at a rate of
roughly 8 milligrams per square centimeter per centimeter.
In part (b) students were told that 
4
2 r f   r dr
0
gives the total mass, in milligrams, of the bacteria in the petri dish.
They were asked to estimate the value of this integral using a right Riemann sum with the values given in a table. A
correct response should multiply the sum of the four products r f i i     r r  i drawn from the table by 2.
In part (c) students were asked to explain whether the right Riemann sum approximation found in part (b) was an
overestimate or an underestimate of the total mass of bacteria. A correct response should determine the derivative of
r f    r using the product rule, use the given information that f is nonnegative to conclude that this derivative is
positive and, therefore, that the integrand is strictly increasing on the interval 0   r 4. This means that the right
Riemann sum approximation is an overestimate.
In part (d) another function, g r     2 16cos1.57 r
3
  , was introduced as a function that models the density of
the bacteria in the petri dish for 1   r 4. Students were asked to find the value of k such that g k   is equal to the
average value of g r   on the interval 1   r 4. A correct response should set up the average value of g(r) as
1

4
g  r dr
3 1
, then use a graphing calculator to solve for k when setting g k   equal to this average value.
Sample: 1A
Score: 9
The response earned 9 points: 2 points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and 3 points in part (d). In
part (a) the difference quotient of
10  6
0.5
in the first line would have earned the first point with no simplification. In
this case, correct simplification to 8 in the first line earned the first point. The response earned the second point for
an interpretation of the density of the bacteria changing at 8 milligrams per square centimeter per centimeter at
r  2.25. In part (b) the response earned the first point for the sum of products expression
2 2     11  612 100.52.5 181.54 in the first line on the right. This sum of products expression
would also have earned the second point with no simplification. In this case, correct simplification to 269 in the
second line earned the second point. In part (c) the response earned the first point for the product rule expression of
d
r f     r r  f r for r f   r
dr
 in the fourth line. The response earned the second point for the conclusion that
r f r has a positive slope because r r , ,  f r, and f r are positive on the interval and, therefore, the estimate is
an overestimate. In part (d) the response earned the first and second points for the definite integral
1

4
2 16cos1
3
 .57 r
4 1  1
   dr giving the average value in the first line. The response earned the third point
for the correct value of k  2.497 in the third line.