Source: https://help.desmos.com/hc/en-us/articles/4405003743757-Using-Desmos-on-In-Class-Assessments
Title: Using Desmos on In-Class Assessments – Desmos Help Center
Captured: 2026-09-29 by browser fetch of the article element

Using Desmos on In-Class Assessments

 Updated August 28, 2026 14:11

 You’ll find our calculators on many state, national, and international assessments. Practice with free calculators that are configured to match what students will see on test day at any time in our Test Mode app (which is available on Chromebooks, Android devices, iOS devices) or on our Testing page.If you’re curious about how to use testing calculators on in-class assessments, learn more about your options based on the devices available in your classroom:
School-Managed Devices
Student Devices
Other Devices
 
 Test Mode on School-Managed DevicesSchool and district-level testing options tend to offer benefits like offline practice and the ability to lock student devices into a specific calculator, but they often require setup from administrators.ChromebooksDesmos currently offers a Desmos Test Mode app that allows for offline practice and testing using the built-in Kiosk Mode feature, which is available through the Google Education bundle for schools that use 1:1 Chromebook setups. In July 2026, Google released ChromeOS 151, which removed support for all Chrome Apps in kiosk mode, including the Desmos Test Mode app. To continue using the app, follow the instructions on this page to add our progressive web app (PWA) to all school-managed devices. For more detail, see Google’s article about the end of support for Chrome apps. First-Time Setup for Google AdministratorsFollow these steps to add the default Test Mode app to all school-managed devices:
 
 Add the App by URL

 Sign into your Google Admin console and navigate to the
 Kiosks tab.

 Hover over the plus icon and choose Add by URL. Then, enter
 https://chrome-test-app.desmos.com/chrome-test-app/stable/index.html.

 Click Save to add the app to Kiosks.

 Add the Extension to Make it Work in Kiosk Mode

 Click the row for Desmos Test Mode to open its settings panel. Under
 Extensions, click Add extension,
 then add
 the Desmos Test Mode companion extension by ID: glgbmmalkgmehlikndaeamkehagichlm.

 Click Save.

 If you’d prefer to use a unique link for your school so that students only have access to a specific calculator, please reach out to us at assessments@desmos.com and we’ll get back to you. Windows, Mac, and iOS Devices

 Secure Browsers for Windows & Mac Devices

 Secure browsers create locked-down environments that prevent students from accessing other applications or websites during an exam. You can use any testing calculator from our
 Testing
 page in the following broswers.

 Respondus LockDown Browser: In Respondus, you
 can include a
 link to the Desmos calculators within an exam. For setup instructions,
 check
 out Respondus’s support article on
 Using the Desmos Calculator with LockDown Browser.

 GoGuardian: GoGuardian lets you push the Desmos
 calculators
 directly to students’ devices and restrict browsing to approved
 sites only. Learn
 more about
 GoGuardian’s Teacher Commands.

 Mobile Device Managers for iOS Devices

 A mobile device manager (MDM) controls the entire device, allowing
 you to lock
 iPads into the Desmos Test Mode app for secure assessments.

 Jamf: Jamf School Teacher supports secure testing
 on iPads.
 For setup instructions, see Jamf’s
 Secure Testing on iPads with Jamf School Teacher
 article.

 Mosyle: Mosyle is another MDM option that focuses
 on iOS devices.
 Learn more at
 Mosyle.

 If you are using something else, feel free to reach out to us
 at
 assessments@desmos.com,
 and we’ll see how we can help.

 Test Mode on Student DevicesIf school-managed device options aren’t available in your classroom, you can also have students use the free Desmos Test Mode apps on their iPhones, iPads, and Android devices for testing or practice. These apps rely on the security features of the devices themselves. However, you can double-check that your students are working in Test Mode by confirming that the banner at the top of the screen matches the correct color: green for Graphing, purple for Scientific, and blue for Four-Function. A badge will also appear next to the Desmos logo.

 iPhone and iPad Test Mode App

 Our
 iPad and iPhone Desmos Test Mode app
 allows for offline practice. If you use the app in Test Mode,
 it will turn on
 Apple’s self-lock feature to prevent students from leaving the
 app while the
 calculator is in use.

 To use the Apple Test Mode app on an assessment, have your students
 complete
 the following steps:

 Open the app and get started with one of the default calculators.
 Or, select
 Choose Assessment and then find your calculator.

 Select Start Test.

 Select Yes on the
 Confirm Apple Self-Lock
 pop-up.

 Select I’m Done to complete the test. Doing
 so will show
 a pop-up that includes how long the student was continuously
 in the app,
 as well as the start time.

 Select I’m Done again to confirm you’d like
 to end the test.
 Otherwise, select Continue Session to resume.

 If you need help exiting the app after it’s been locked, learn
 how to restart
 the device from
 Apple Support,
 or contact us at
 support@desmos.com.

 Android Test Mode App

 Our
 Android Test Mode app
 app allows for offline practice. If you use the app in Test Mode,
 it will rely
 on Android’s pinning feature.

 To use the Android Test Mode app on an assessment, have your
 students complete
 the following steps:

 Open your device settings.
 Disable WiFi on your device.
 
 Turn on Airplane Mode.

 Open the Test Mode app and get started with one of the default
 calculators.
 Or, select Choose Assessment and then find
 your calculator.

 Select Start Test.

 The app will automatically pin itself, and you’ll see directions
 for how
 to unpin it. Read more about pinning apps on
 Android Help.

 Select I’m Done to end the test. Doing so
 will show a pop-up
 that includes how long the student was continuously in the
 app, as well as
 the start time.

 Select I’m Done to confirm. Otherwise, select
 Continue Session to resume.
 
 Unpin the app.

 Other DevicesIf you use another device or platform, or have any questions about the options we’ve listed, send us a note at assessments@desmos.com. We’d love to hear more about your situation and see if we can help. Learn More
Assessments FAQ
Practice With Testing Calculators

 Image 1.png
 (40 KB)

 X.png
 (397 Bytes)

 Check.png
 (334 Bytes)

 Row 2 Image 2.png
 (40 KB)

 Row 2 Image 1.png
 (40 KB)

 Row 2 Image 3.png
 (60 KB)
