AP®
Calculus BC 2024 Scoring Commentary
© 2024 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question 5
Note: Student samples are quoted verbatim and may contain spelling and grammatical errors.
Overview
In this question, students were told that the function f is twice differentiable and that f (0) = 0. A table of selected
values of x and f x ′( ) was provided.
In part (a) students were told that for x ≥ 0, the function h is defined by ∫
x
h(x) = 1 + ( f ′(t))2
dt and were
asked to find the value of h′(π)
0
. A correct response will use the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus to find
h x ′( ) = 1 + ( f (x))2
, then will evaluate this expression at x = π. ′
In part (b) students were asked what information the expression ∫
π
1 + ( f ′(x))2
dx
0
provides about the graph of f.
A correct response indicates that this is the expression for the arc length of the graph of f on the interval [0, π].
In part (c) students were told to use Euler’s method to approximate f (2π), starting at x = 0,with two steps of
equal size. A correct response will use the line tangent to the graph of f at (0, 0) to find an approximation for
f (π), then use the line tangent to the graph of f (π, f ( )) π at to approximate the value of 2 f ( π).
In part (d) students were asked to find ⌠ t
(t + 5)cos(4)dt
⌡
. A correct response will use the technique of integration
by parts to find an answer of
4
t
4(t + 5)⋅sin( )+16cos
4 ( ) .
t
C +
Sample: 5A
Score: 9
The response earned 9 points: 2 points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and 3 points in part (d).
In part (a) the response earned the first point with the correct application of the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus
in line 1 on the right. The response would have earned the second point with the expression 1 + (6)2
. In this
case, the response correctly simplifies to the expression 37 at the end of line 2 and earned the second point.
In part (b) the response earned the first point with the phrase “arc length of .” The response earned the
second point with the interval “from
f (x)
x = 0 to x = π ” in line 2.
In part (c) the response earned the first point with two correct Euler’s steps in the table. The response earned the
second point with the boxed answer f (2π) ≈ 11 . π
In part (d) the response earned the first point with the correct identification of u and dv in line 2. The response
earned the second point with the correct application of integration by parts on the right side of line 1. The response
earned the third point with the boxed answer.