AP®
Calculus BC 2024 Scoring Commentary
© 2024 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question 5 (continued)
Sample: 5B
Score: 6
The response earned 6 points: 2 points in part (a), no points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and 2 points in part (d).
In part (a) the response earned the first point with the correct application of the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus
in line 1. The response earned the second point with the boxed solution 37 at the end of line 3.
In part (b) the response did not earn the first point with the phrase “Accumulates” because this phrase does not
reference arc length. The response did not earn the second point because the second point cannot be earned
without a connection to arc length.
In part (c) the response earned the first point with two correct Euler’s steps in the table. The response earned the
second point with the boxed answer of 11π.
In part (d) the response earned the first point with the table on the right which begins with the columns t + 5 and
t
cos(4). The response earned the second point with the correct application of integration by parts on the left in line
2. The response did not earn the third point because the boxed answer does not include a constant of integration.
Sample: 5C
Score: 4
The response earned 4 points: 2 points in part (a), no points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and no points in part
(d).
In part (a) the response earned the first point with the correct application of the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus
in line 2. The response would have earned the second point with the expression 1 6 + ( )2
in line 4. In this case,
the response correctly simplifies to the solution 37 at the end of line 4 and earned the second point.
In part (b) the response did not earn the first point with the phrase “the sum of the change in the function” because
this phrase does not reference arc length. The response did not earn the second point because the second point
cannot be earned without a connection to arc length.
In part (c) the response earned the first point with two correct Euler’s steps in line 4 and line 9. The response
earned the second point with the answer of y2 = 11π = (2 ) f π in line 10.
In part (d) the response did not earn the first point with the incorrect identification of dv in line 3. The response did
not earn the second point because the response applies integration by parts with the incorrect function for v in line
4. The response did not earn the third point because the integration is not complete.