AP Calculus AB and BC ∙ Clarifications and Corrections 1
AP®
Calculus AB and BC
Course and Exam Description Clarifications and
Corrections
About the Advanced Placement Program® (AP®)
The Advanced Placement Program® hasenabled millions ofstudents to take college-level courses andearn
college credit, advanced placement, orboth, while still inhigh school. AP Exams are giveneach year in May.
Students who earn aqualifying score on an AP Exam are typicallyeligible,in college, to receive credit, placement
into advanced courses, or both. Every aspect of AP course and exam development is the result of collaboration
betweenAPteachers and college faculty. They work together to develop AP courses andexams, set scoring
standards, and score the exams. College faculty review every AP teacher’s course syllabus.We commit to
supportingeducators and communities in their efforts tomake AP courses widely available, advancing students in
their plans for college and careers.
Course and Exam Description Clarifications and Corrections
To be implemented for Fall 2026
General Clarifications
Available Resources listed in the topic pages were updatedto indicate whether they cannow be found inAP
Classroom or in the Online Teacher Community.
InAP Resources and Supports, the following sections were updated:
 ProgressDashboard
The Progress Dashboard section was replaced with the Reports section, which includes updatedlanguage
about how teachers can track student progress by using Progress Checks and other resources.
 QuestionBank
The Question Bank section contains updated language about using the searchable library of AP
questions.
 Technology Needs
The TechnologyNeeds and Use of Graphing Calculators sections werecombined and clarified.
Unit Guides
The following EssentialKnowledge statements (EKs) were updated:
UNIT 5
 EK FUN-1.C.1
Updatedto read, “If afunction f is continuous over theinterval , a b  
  , then the Extreme Value Theorem
guarantees that fhas at leastone minimum value and at least onemaximum value on  
  , a b .”