AP Calculus AB and BC ∙ Clarifications and Corrections 
 
1 

 

 
 

AP® Calculus AB and BC 
Course and Exam Description Clarifications and 
Corrections 

 

About the Advanced Placement Program® (AP®) 

The Advanced Placement Program® has enabled millions of students to take college-level courses and earn 
college credit, advanced placement, or both, while still in high school. AP Exams are given each year in May. 
Students who earn a qualifying score on an AP Exam are typically eligible, in college, to receive credit, placement 
into advanced courses, or both. Every aspect of AP course and exam development is the result of collaboration 
between AP teachers and college faculty. They work together to develop AP courses and exams, set scoring 
standards, and score the exams. College faculty review every AP teacher’s course syllabus. We commit to 
supporting educators and communities in their efforts to make AP courses widely available, advancing students in 
their plans for college and careers. 

Course and Exam Description Clarifications and Corrections 

To be implemented for Fall 2026 

General Clarifications 

Available Resources listed in the topic pages were updated to indicate whether they can now be found in AP 
Classroom or in the Online Teacher Community. 
 
In AP Resources and Supports, the following sections were updated: 

 
Progress Dashboard 
The Progress Dashboard section was replaced with the Reports section, which includes updated language 
about how teachers can track student progress by using Progress Checks and other resources. 
 
Question Bank 
The Question Bank section contains updated language about using the searchable library of AP 
questions. 
 
Technology Needs 
The Technology Needs and Use of Graphing Calculators sections were combined and clarified.  

Unit Guides 

The following Essential Knowledge statements (EKs) were updated: 

UNIT 5 

 
EK FUN-1.C.1 

Updated to read, “If a function f is continuous over the interval 
, 
a b



, then the Extreme Value Theorem 

guarantees that f has at least one minimum value and at least one maximum value on 



, 
a b .” 
