AP®
Calculus AB/BC 2021 Scoring Commentary
Question 3 (continued)
Sample: 3B
Score: 6
The response earned 6 points: 3 points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), and 1 point in part (c). In part (a) the response
presents the correct integrand in a definite integral and earned the first point. The antiderivative
2  u 3 2
3

 3  
with
the definition u   4 x2
is correct and earned the second point. Note that the sign of the antiderivative is consistent
with the limits of integration. The response is eligible for the third point. The answer is correct and earned the third
point. Note that the substitution of u   4 x2
after finding the antiderivative and using the limits of x  0 and
x  2 is not necessary to evaluate the antiderivative. In part (b) the response earned the first point by stating
dy
 0.
dx
The answer is correct and earned the second point. In part (c) the integrand is not of the correct form and
the response did not earn the first point. The limits and constant are correct and earned the second point. Because the
integrand is not of the correct form, the response is not eligible for and did not earn the third point. Without earning
the third point, the response is not eligible for and did not earn the fourth point.
Sample: 3C
Score: 3
The response earned 3 points: 1 point in part (a), 2 points in part (b), and no points in part (c). In part (a) the response
presents the correct integrand in a definite integral and earned the first point. The antiderivative presented is
incorrect because the sign of the antiderivative is incorrect, and the response did not earn the second point. The
response is not eligible for and did not earn the third point. In part (b) the response earned the first point by stating
c x 4 2 2
  .
dy 
  0
dx 4  x2
The answer is correct, and the response earned the second point. In part (c) the integrand
presented is not of the correct form and the response did not earn the first point. The constant 2 is incorrect and
the response did not earn the second point. Without an integrand of the correct form, the response is not eligible for
the third point and is not eligible for the fourth point. The response did not earn the third point and did not earn the
fourth point.
© 2021 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.