Overview
Like last year, in 2026, 12 AP
®
subjects are administered as hybrid digital AP
Exams. Students complete multiple-choice questions and view free-response
questions in Bluebook
TM
. They handwrite their free-response answers in paper
exam booklets that are returned for scoring.
This overview highlights key aspects of the free-response booklets for hybrid
digital AP Exam subjects. AP coordinators can review and share this overview
with proctors while preparing for the AP Exam administration to help
them understand how the format of the booklets differs between subjects.
Full-length sample booklets are also available for download at
cb.org/ap-digital-hybrid. Teachers may review the booklets and share with
their students to help them become familiar with the format of the booklet for
their subject.
AP coordinators will receive their school’s shipment of hybrid digital AP Exam
free-response booklets in April, and will return the booklets after the exam
administration. On exam day, proctors will distribute the booklets and read
directions to students at the beginning of the administration before students
start testing. Throughout the exam, students will see directions onscreen in
Bluebook.
Q5522/01
TEST BO O K SER IAL N U MBER
AP®
Calculus AB
Sample Booklet
SECTION II: FREE-RESPONSE
ENTER YOUR IDENTIFICATION
INFORMATION
1. First two letters of your
last name
First letter of your
first name
2. Date of birth
Month Day
3. Six-digit school code
Time: 1 hour, 30 minutes Questions: 6
• Free-response questions and the section
timer are in Bluebook.
• Write answers in this booklet.
• Use a pencil or pen with black or dark blue
ink.
• Do not write outside the box. Erased or
crossed-out work will not be scored.
© 2025 College Board. College Board, Advanced Placement, AP, and the acorn logo are registered trademarks of College Board. Unauthorized reproduction or
use of any part of this test is prohibited and may result in cancellation of scores and possible prosecution to the fullest extent of the law.
Affix AP ID Label Here
XXXXXX
66
Overview: Hybrid Digital AP Exams Free-Response Booklets 2