© 2024 College Board. 
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 

Question BC2 

Topic: Parametric Particle Motion – Speed, Distance, Position 
Max Score: 9 
Mean Score: 5.56 

What were the responses to this question expected to demonstrate? 

In this question students were told a particle was moving along a curve in the xy -plane with position (x(t), y(t)) at time t 
seconds. Students were also given expressions for x′( )t and y′( )t and were told that particle was at the point (3, 6) at time 

t = 2. 

In part (a) students were asked to find the speed of the particle at time t = 2 seconds. A correct response would provide the 

setup (x′(2))2 + (
( ))
y′ 2
2 and use a calculator to find the numerical value 12.305 (or 12.304 ). 

In part (b) students were asked to find the total distance traveled by the particle over the time interval 0 ≤
≤
t
2. A correct 

response would present the setup 

2∫
(x′(t))2 + ( y (t))
dt
0
′
2
 and use a calculator to find the value 15.902 (or 15.901). 

In part (c) students were asked to find the y -coordinate of the position of the particle at time t = 0. A correct response 

would provide the setup 

0
y(0
6
) =
+ ∫y′(t) dt

2
 and use a calculator to find the value −1.174 (or −1.173). 

In part (d) students were told that the particle remains in the first quadrant during the time interval 2 ≤
≤
t
8 and were asked 
to find all times in this interval when the particle is moving toward the x-axis. A correct response would consider the sign of 

y t
′( ) and answer that because y t
′( ) < 0 on this time interval, the particle will be moving toward the x-axis. 

How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the 
responses integrate the skill(s) required on this question? 

Part (a) 

• 
Most responses provided the correct setup for the speed of the particle. 

• 
Most responses also successfully used a calculator to determine the speed of the particle at time t = 2. 

• 
A few of the responses included absolute value symbols either inside or outside the square root. Although this was 
not incorrect, it may have suggested a weaker understanding of the expression for finding the speed of the particle 
moving on the plane or about the meaning of the square root function. 

• 
Some responses presented fewer than three correct digits after the decimal, and those that did tended to do so in 
all parts of this problem. 

• 
Some responses incorrectly equated a general expression in t to the value of such an expression at a particular 

point, e.g., (x t
′
′
( ))2
2
+
=
( y (t))
(x′(2))2 + ( y (2))
 
′
.
2

• 
Frequently responses that chose to write the expression for speed using the given numeric expressions for x t
′( ) 
and y t
′( ) presented copy or presentation errors, such as dropping a square on one term or failing to include 
necessary parentheses. 

 
 
