© 2024 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve student performance on the exam?
• Student responses demonstrated widespread skill using calculators to find the values of definite integrals and
derivatives at a point. When asked to explain the meaning of these values, however, student responses frequently
uncover gaps in understanding. An understanding of how derivatives and integrals create meaning in context is an
important skill for students to develop. Being able to interpret meaning from existing units of measure and
provide appropriate units after integrating or differentiating allows students to apply calculus to real-world
problems and understand why calculus is an important part of mathematical study.
• Reviewing past years’ Scoring Guidelines and Chief Reader Reports are the best ways to see exactly the type of
terminology and specific language that is likely to earn points for questions asking for units, interpretations, and
reasoning. Exposing students to the correct way to perform these tasks as soon as the concepts are taught is a great
way to form good habits in writing these verbal explanations.
• Offering students practice applying the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus to find net change can foster student
confidence in answering questions in applied contexts like part (c) of this problem.
• An effective teaching strategy to assist students in finding correct units is to have them circle or underline the
units shown in a table or as labels along the axes in a graph. Depending upon whether the question asks for a
derivative or an antiderivative, students can then either divide or multiply those units, respectively.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content
and skill(s) required on this question?
AP®
Calculus free response questions typically include a few points that should be relatively easily earned by students who
have basic levels of understanding of the content and mastery of the skills of the course. Most students were able to earn at
least one point on this question. It is important to build a strong foundation throughout the year and to practice identifying
and earning those “entry” points on the exam.
• AP Student Practice is a resource that can meet the needs of students of all levels of understanding and mastery.
Students can access this resource whether a teacher assigns it or not. Each unit has AP Student Practice questions
pitched to three levels. We hope to see students build strong foundations in the basics and to advance to more
challenging levels over time. These resources can be found on the relevant unit pages on AP Classroom.
o AP Student Practice for Unit 2 Level 1 can help students with emerging understanding make sense of what
is being asked in part (a) of this question and to build on that understanding with practice.
o AP Student Practice for Unit 8 Level 1 can help students develop their interpretation skills, among others.
• Practice reading and working past AP®
Calculus free response questions can help students to identify what is being
asked in each part, relevant information they are given in the stem, and the types of responses they are expected to
provide. This thoughtful pre-read will almost assure that students who have built a strong foundation across the year
will find and earn points at all but the highest levels of difficulty.