© 2024 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
• There were a reasonable number of responses that compared the signs of the particle’s velocity and acceleration at
time t = 1.5 and correctly concluded the particle’s speed was increasing. However, quite a few responses
considered only the sign of a(1.5) to draw a conclusion about whether the particle’s speed was increasing or
decreasing.
• Some responses presented poor mathematical communication in the form of false statements such as
a t ( ) = v′(t) = −1.
Part (c)
• A large number of responses correctly calculated the particle’s position as
4
x(1) + ∫ v(t) dt =− + 3 0.197
1
and
provided the correct setup, although many responses had an incorrect or missing differential dt.
• Some responses provided the setup x(4) = x(0) + ∫ v(t) dt
4
0
and then used the given information that x(1 3 ) = −
to find the value of x(0) after using the calculator to find the value of
1
∫ v(t) dt
0
. This is a valid approach, but is
definitely more time consuming, and may represent a lack of understanding that the particle’s position can be
found using a definite integral with a lower limit of integration other than zero.
• Some responses approached this problem by using a computer algebra system (CAS) enabled calculator to find a
closed form expression for x(t) + C and then attempted to use x(1) = −3 to find the value of C and compute
x(4). This approach was usually not successful.
Part (d)
• Most responses presented a correct setup for the total distance traveled by the particle, and most also went on to
correctly use a calculator to compute that distance.
• Some responses did not seem to know how to apply absolute values appropriately, incorrectly claiming the total
distance traveled was ∫
4
v(t) dt.
1
What common student misconceptions or gaps in knowledge were seen in the responses to this
question?
Common Misconceptions/Knowledge Gaps Responses that Demonstrate Understanding
• In part (a) some responses erroneously dropped the
−0.2t term from the velocity function. These students
might have noticed their mistake if they had
recognized that the value of tR they found did not lie
within the given interval 0 < < t 2. However, most
did not.
• Many responses did not explicitly communicate that
the value tR is found by determining when v(t) = 0.
• Some responses communicated poorly with statements
such as “the velocity is moving right.”
• The particle is at rest when its velocity is zero:
v(t) = 0 ⇒ ln(t2
− 4t + 5)− 0.2t = 0 ⇒ = t 1.4256.
• The particle is at rest when its velocity is zero:
v(tR R ) =0 ⇒ = t 1.4256.
• Because the particle’s velocity is positive on the interval
0 < < t R t , the particle is moving to the right.
• In part (b) some responses considered only the sign of
a(1.5) and concluded the particle’s speed was
decreasing when t = 1.5.
• Some responses provided (incorrect) global arguments
about the signs of the particle’s velocity and
• Because a(1.5) < 0 and v(1.5) < 0, the speed of the
particle is increasing at time t = 1.5.