© 2024 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question BC6
Topic: Maclaurin Series – Alternating Series Error Bound, Radius of Convergence
Max Score: 9
Mean Score: 3.38
What were the responses to this question expected to demonstrate?
In this question, students are told that the Maclaurin series for a function f is given by
x ∞
(n +1) n
∑ .
= n2
1 6n
n
Furthermore, the
series converges to f ( ) x for all x in the interval of convergence and the radius of that interval of convergence is 6.
In part (a) the students are asked to determine whether the Maclaurin series for f converges or diverges at x = 6 and to
give a reason for their answer. A correct response will determine that at x = 6, the series is
∞
(n +1)
∑ n=1 n2
and that for all
n ≥ 1, the terms of this series are larger than the terms of the divergent harmonic series. Therefore, this series diverges by
the comparison test.
In part (b) students are told that
∞
(n +1) 1 n
f (−3) = ∑ ⋅(− ) = n2
n 1
2
and that the first three terms of this series sum to
125
S3 = − .
144
Students are asked to show that
1
f (−3) − S3 <
50
. A correct response will observe that the series for f (−3) is alternating
with terms that decrease in magnitude to 0. Therefore, by the alternating series error bound, S3 approximates f (−3) with
an error that is no more than the value of the fourth term of the series. The fourth term is
4 1 + 1 4
⋅ − = 2 ( 2) 4 256
5
, which is
less than
1
.
50
In part (c) students are asked to find the general term of the Maclaurin series for f ′ and to find the radius of convergence of
the Maclaurin series for f ′. A correct response will differentiate the general term of the Maclaurin series for f to find a
general term of
(n +1) n−1
n ⋅ 6n
x
and will note that the radius of convergence of the Maclaurin series for f ′ must be 6, because
this is the radius of convergence of the Maclaurin series of f .
In part (d) students are given a new Maclaurin series,
x ∞
(n +1) 2n
g x ( ) = ∑ , 2
= n n
n 1 3
and asked to use the ratio test to determine the
radius of convergence. A correct response will set up a ratio of consecutive terms,
an+1
an
, find the limit of the absolute value
of that ratio as n → ∞, and determine for what values of x the limit is less than 1.
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skill(s) required on this question?
Part (a)
• A majority of the responses successfully identified the general term of the series at x = 6.
• A significant number of responses successfully performed a comparison test or a limit comparison test and
concluded the series diverges.
• The responses that failed to consider the series at x = 6 typically did not make much progress on this part of the
problem.