© 2024 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
• In part (c) some responses separated incorrectly, e.g.,
⌠ dH t
 = ⌠ cos
⌡ )dt.
2 1 (H − ) ⌡ (2
• Many responses incorrectly antidifferentiated
(t
cos .
2)
• Some responses tried to solve their equation for H t ( )
before using the initial condition, e.g.,
C H e − = 1 sin(t 2)+C
⇒ 4= eC
+ 1 ⇒ ln 3=
H= 1 + ln 3⋅esin(t 2)
• ⌠ 2⋅dH
= ⌠ t
 cos dt or
⌡ (H −1) ⌡ (2)
⌠ dH ⌠ 1 t
 =  cos dt
⌡ (H −1) ⌡ 2 2 ( )
• ⌠
(t
) t
cos dt = 2sin
⌡ ( )+ C
2 2
• H e − = 1 sin(t 2)+C
⇒ 4= eC
+ 1 ⇒ ln 3=
H e = 1+ = sin(t t 2)+ln 3
1 3 + esin( 2)
C
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve student performance on the exam?
• Teachers could provide students with practice sketching solution curves of various types and could emphasize
how information given in the question can be used to create a mental picture of the solution curve.
• Teachers should hold their students to a high standard in justifying the type of critical value that is found.
Language such as “the derivative changed from positive to negative” or “the graph changed from positive to
negative” or “it changed from positive to negative” is too vague. Practice using concise, precise statements and
notation such as “
dH
dt
changed from positive to negative” would be invaluable.
• Teachers could provide several options (correct and incorrect) of “separated” separable differential equations and
have students practice classifying the options as “correctly separated,” “poorly separated,” or “not separated”.
• In practicing solving differential equations, teachers could encourage students to use the initial condition when the
constant of integration first appears. For example, once ln C
t
H −1 = sin +
2 ( ) is written, students should then
immediately use H = 4 and t = 0 to obtain ln 4 −1 = sin(0
) C
2
+ . The combination of the two equations
would have earned the response the fourth point in part (c) no matter what algebraic mistakes were made in
attempting to find H t ( ).
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content
and skill(s) required on this question?
• In Topic 7.6 on AP Classroom, there are links to a lesson and student handout: Applying Procedures for Separable
Differential Equations and General Solutions. These resources address suggestions offered above by the Chief
Reader (CR). Although the first activity is not about sketching, it is an analytical version of the CR’s first suggestion
about practicing sketching solution curves. The lesson and handout also include an error analysis activity, related to
the CR’s third suggestion above.
• Student Practice resources for Unit 7 are excellent preparation for this question. Level 1 offers an appropriate
introduction to the methods; Level 2 includes a slope field and advances the difficulty a bit; and Level 3 develops
even deeper understanding. Level 3 looks back to the math of ratio and proportions learned before calculus,
incorporates limits, and guides students through the particular solution of a challenging separable differential
equation. These resources can be found on the Unit 7 page on AP Classroom.