© 2024 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question AB2
Topic: Particle Motion – Acceleration, Position, Distance
Max Score: 9
Mean Score: 4.24
What were the responses to this question expected to demonstrate?
In this question students were told that a particle is moving along the x-axis with a velocity for t ≥ 0 given by
v(t) = ln(t2
− + 4t 5)− 0.2t.
In part (a) students were asked to find the one time, tR, in the interval 0 < < t 2 when the particle is at rest (not moving).
Students were also asked to determine whether the particle is moving to the right or to the left for 0 < < t tR. A correct
response would find the value of tR by using a calculator to solve the equation v(t) = 0 for t. The response would continue
by using the calculator to determine that the particle’s velocity is positive for 0 < < t tR, which means the particle is moving
to the right during this time interval.
In part (b) students were asked to find the acceleration of the particle at time t = 1.5 and to determine whether the speed of
the particle is increasing or decreasing at this time. A correct response would indicate that the particle’s acceleration is the
derivative of the particle’s velocity, a t ( ) = v′(t), and would use a calculator to find the value v′(1.5) = −1. A correct
response would continue by using the calculator to determine that v(1.5) < 0, so the particle’s velocity and acceleration have
the same sign when t = 1.5. Therefore, the speed of the particle is increasing then.
In part (c) students are asked to find the position of the particle at time t = 4, given that the position of the particle at time
t = 1 is x(1) = −3. A correct response would provide the setup
4
x(4 1 ) = x( ) + ∫ v(t) dt
1
and use a calculator to find the
value − + 3 0.197 =−2.803.
In part (d) students are asked to find the total distance traveled by the particle over the time interval 1 ≤ ≤ t 4. A correct
response would provide the setup
1 ∫
4
v(t) dt and then use a calculator to find a total distance of 0.958.
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skill(s) required on this question?
Part (a)
• Overall, the responses indicated a very good understanding that finding when a particle is at rest requires
determining when the particle’s velocity is zero.
• Additionally, most responses indicated that the particle was moving to the right because its velocity was positive on
the given interval.
• Some responses reported the correct value of tR but did not provide any explanation of how this value was found.
Part (b)
• Most responses used a calculator to find the correct value of a(1.5), and many provided the setup for this
calculation by reporting some version of a t ( ) = v′(t).
• Some responses found the value of a(1.5) without using a calculator by reporting
2(1.5) − 4
v′(1.5) = − 0.2.
1.52
− 4(1.5) + 5