© 2024 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question BC5
Topic: Analysis of Functions – Arc Length, Euler’s Method, Integration by Parts
Max Score: 9
Mean Score: 5.92
What were the responses to this question expected to demonstrate?
In this question, students were told that the function f is twice differentiable and that f (0) = 0. A table of selected values
of x and f ′(x) was provided.
In part (a) students were told that for x ≥ 0, the function h is defined by
x
h(x) = ∫ 1+ ( f ′(t))2
dt
0
and were asked to find
the value of h′(π). A correct response will use the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus to find h x ′( ) = 1 + ( f (x))2
′ ,then
will evaluate this expression at x = π.
In part (b) students were asked what information the expression
π
∫ 1 + ( f ′(x))2
dx
0
provides about the graph of f . A
correct response indicates that this is the expression for the arc length of the graph of f on the interval [0, π].
In part (c) students were told to use Euler’s method to approximate f (2π), starting at x = 0,with two steps of equal size. A
correct response will use the line tangent to the graph of f at (0, 0) to find an approximation for f (π), then use the line
tangent to the graph of f at (π, f ( )) π to approximate the value of f (2π ).
In part (d) students were asked to find ⌠ t
(t + 5)cos( )dt
⌡ 4
. A correct response will use the technique of integration by parts
to find an answer of
t
4(t + 5)⋅sin +16cos .
4 ( ) ( )+ C
4
t
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skill(s) required on this question?
Part (a)
• Most of the responses demonstrated a basic understanding of the concept of the derivative of an integral expression,
applying the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus correctly to find h x ′( ) = 1+ ( f (x))2
′ .
• Nearly all responses that correctly applied the FTC went on to successfully evaluate their expression at x = π.
Part (b)
• Most responses recognized the given expression as an arc length or as a length.
• Some responses said the expression represented a “distance” which was too vague, unless the distance was
explicitly connected to the graph of f .
• Quite a few responses gave a complete answer that included information about the interval [0, π].
• Many responses did not include any reference to the interval [0, π].
Part (c)
• Nearly all responses that began Euler’s method correctly found a correct approximation of f (2π ).
• Roughly half of the responses attempted to use a linear approximation approach; the other half used a tabular
approach.