© 2024 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
• Some responses failed to include a constant of
integration:
( (t )
t t
 ⌠ + = 5 cos dt 4(t + 5)⋅sin +16cos .
⌡ 4 4 ) t
( ) 4 ( )
• Some responses attempted to solve for the constant of
integration by using information about f or h.
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve student performance on the exam?
• Teachers could provide more practice with the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, in particular working with
differentiating an integral expression with function limits. Teachers could require correct notation in each of these
practice opportunities.
• Teachers could compare and contrast the formulas for arc length (Topic 8.13 and 9.3) for both single variable
equations and parametric equations.
• Teachers could provide practice using clear communication of the steps and labels in Euler’s method, particularly
when using a tabular presentation.
• Teachers should look for ways to help students recognize situations when a particular technique of integration
(substitution, by parts, partial fractions, etc.) is appropriate.
• Teachers could provide significant practice integrating by parts, expecting a clear delineation of both u and dv.
Students should be required to provide unambiguous communication, including appropriate labels on intermediate
steps, particularly if they are using tabular integration by parts.
• Teachers could provide practice with using both u-substitution and integration by parts within a single integration
problem.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content
and skill(s) required on this question?
• The Daily Videos for Topic 6.11 and 6.14 in AP Classroom provide excellent guidance to help students understand
and practice integration by parts and to recognize situations when a particular technique of integration is appropriate.
Topic questions for these topics help students to assess their understanding of integration by parts and other
integration techniques.