AP®
Calculus BC 2023 Scoring Commentary
© 2023 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question 2 (continued)
Sample: 2B
Score: 5
The response earned 5 points: 2 points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), 1 point in part (c), and no points in part (d).
In part (a) the setup for both second derivatives occurs in the first two lines. The response earned both points with
the work in the third line. Note also that the last line gives the correct decimal approximations.
In part (b) the response earned the first point with the first line. The response earned the second point with the
second line.
In part (c) the response earned the first point with the second line. The response did not earn the second point
because no definite integral is presented. The response did not earn the third point due to an incorrect value in the
last line. (Note that the response attempts to approximate the position of x at time 1 t = using a tangent line instead
of finding the exact position using an integral.)
In part (d) the response did not earn the first point due to an incorrect integrand. The response did not earn the
second point due to an incorrect value.
Sample: 2C
Score: 2
The response earned 2 points: 1 point in part (a), no points in part (b), 1 point in part (c), and no points in part (d).
In part (a) the response did not earn the first point because it presents an incorrect value of ( ) 1 . x′′ The response
earned the second point with a correct setup and value of ( ) 1 . y′′
In part (b) the response did not earn the first point because it presents an incorrect equation. The response did not
earn the second point because it presents an incorrect solution for . t
In part (c) the response earned the first point with the work presented. The response did not earn any further points
because no additional work is presented.
In part (d) the response did not earn the first point because there is no integral presented. The response did not earn
the second point because it does not present a value for the total distance traveled.