AP®
CALCULUS BC
2013 SCORING COMMENTARY
© 2013 The College Board.
Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org.
Question 3
Overview
In this problem, a table was provided giving values of a differentiable function C at selected times between
0 t  and 6 t  minutes, where   C t represented the amount of coffee, in ounces, in a cup at time t. Part (a)
asked students to approximate the derivative of the function C at 3.5 t  and to indicate units of measure.
Because 3.5 t  fell between values of t given in the table, students should have constructed a difference
quotient using the temperature values across the smallest time interval containing 3.5 t  that is supported by the
table. Students should have recognized this derivative as the rate at which the amount of coffee in the cup is
increasing, in ounces per minute, at time 3.5. t  Part (b) asked students whether there is a time t, 2 4, t   at
which   2. C t   Students should have recognized that the hypotheses for the Mean Value Theorem hold because
C is differentiable and then applied the theorem to the function on the interval   2, 4 to conclude that there must
be such a time t. Part (c) asked for an interpretation of  
6
0
1
6
C t dt  and a numeric approximation to this
expression using a midpoint sum with three subintervals of equal length as indicated by the data in the table.
Students should have recognized this expression as providing the average amount, in ounces, of coffee in the cup
over the 6-minute time period. Students needed to use the values in the table at times 1, t  3, t  and 5, t 
with interval length 2, to compute this value. In part (d) students were given a symbolic expression for a function
B that modeled the amount of coffee in the cup on the interval 0 6. t   Students were asked to use this model
to determine the rate at which the amount of coffee in the cup is changing when time 5. t  This was answered
by computing the value   5 . B
Sample: 3A
Score: 9
The student earned all 9 points.
Sample: 3B
Score: 6
The student earned 6 points: 2 points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and 2 points in part (d). In part (a) the student
does not construct a numeric difference quotient, so no points were earned. The use of f instead of C is ignored.
In part (b) the student’s work is correct. The use of f instead of C is ignored because the student correctly uses
C-values from the table and invokes the Mean Value Theorem. In part (c) the student earned the first 2 points. The
interpretation point was not earned because the student does not commit to ounces as the units. The student also
uses “ounces per hour” in the interpretation. In part (d) the student’s work is correct.
Sample: 3C
Score: 3
The student earned 3 points: 1 point in part (a), 1 point in part (c), and 1 point in part (d). In part (a) the student
earned the approximation point, but not the units point. In part (b) the student’s work is incorrect. In part (c) the
student earned the midpoint sum point, but not the approximation point. The interpretation does not include
“average,” so the third point was not earned. In part (d) the student has the correct derivative but incorrectly
multiplies   0.4 5 ,  so the answer point was not earned.