AP® CALCULUS BC 
2013 SCORING COMMENTARY 
 

© 2013 The College Board.  
Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org. 

Question 2 
 
Overview 
 
This problem provided the graphs of two curves defined by polar equations, along with values of  at which the 
curves intersect. Part (a) asked students to find the area of the region common to the interiors of both graphs. This 
required students to divide the region into two subregions, bounded by arcs determined by the given values of ,
 
and then to apply the formula for polar area on each subregion to find the total area of the region. Part (b) 
described a particle moving along one of the curves and asked students to find the time when the x-coordinate of 
the particle is 1.

 Students needed to express the x-coordinate of the particle in terms of the angle ,
 express  
in terms of time t, and, setting the resulting expression for x in terms of t equal to 1,

 solve for t in the desired 
time interval. Part (c) asked students to find the position vector of the particle in terms of time t, which required 
also determining an expression for y in terms of t, and then to find the velocity vector at a given time. This final 
step required finding the numerical derivative of each expression in the position vector at the given time. 
 
Sample: 2A 
Score: 9 
 
The student earned all 9 points. 
 
Sample: 2B 
Score: 6 
 
The student earned 6 points: 2 points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), and 2 points in part (c). In part (a) the student 
earned 2 points for providing the integrand and the correct limits and constant. In part (b) the student earned 2 
points for writing 
x  and setting 
x t equal to 1.

 In part (c) the student earned 2 points for the x- and y-
components of the position vector. 
 
Sample: 2C 
Score: 3 
 
The student earned 3 points: 1 point in part (a) and 2 points in part (c). In part (a) the student earned 1 point for 
the integrand. In part (b) the student does not include parentheses in the expression 4
2sin
,


 and continues to 
attempt a solution with an incorrect equation. In part (c) the student earned 2 points for the x- and y-components 
of the position vector. 
