AP®
CALCULUS AB/CALCULUS BC
2014 SCORING COMMENTARY
© 2014 The College Board.
Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org.
Question 4
Overview
In this problem students were given a table of values of a differentiable function ( ), A v t the velocity of Train A,
in meters per minute, for selected values of t in the interval 0 12, t ≤ ≤ where t is measured in minutes. In part
(a) students were expected to know that the average acceleration of Train A over the interval 2 8 t ≤ ≤ is the
average rate of change of ( ) A v t over that interval. The unit of the average acceleration is meters per minute per
minute. In part (b) students were expected to state clearly that A v is continuous because it is differentiable, and
thus the Intermediate Value Theorem implies the existence of a time t between 5 t = and 8 t = at which
( ) 100. A v t = − In part (c) students were expected to show that the change in position over a time interval is given
by the definite integral of the velocity over that time interval. If ( ) A s t is the position of Train A, in meters, at
time t minutes, then ( ) ( ) ( )
12
2
12 2 A A A s s v t dt − = ∫ , which implies that ( ) ( )
12
2
12 300 A A s v t dt = + ∫ is the
position at 12. t = Students approximated ( )
12
2
A v t dt ∫ using a trapezoidal approximation. In part (d) students had
to determine the relationship between train A’s position, train B’s position, and the distance between the two
trains. Students needed to put together several pieces of information from different parts of the problem and use
implicit differentiation to determine the rate at which the distance between the two trains is changing at time
2. t =
Sample: 4A
Score: 9
The student earned all 9 points.
Sample: 4B
Score: 6
The student earned 6 points: no points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), 1 point in part (c), and 3 points in part (d).
In part (a) the student makes an arithmetic mistake in computing the average acceleration. In part (b) the student’s
work is correct. In part (c) the student earned the point for the position expression, but the trapezoidal sum is
incorrect. The student is not eligible for the answer point. In part (d) the student’s work is correct.
Sample: 4C
Score: 3
The student earned 3 points: 1 point in part (a), 1 point in part (b), 1 point in part (c), and no points in part (d). In
part (a) the student’s work is correct. In part (b) the student encloses 100 − within the required interval, but the
student does not provide a reason. In part (c) the position expression is correct, but the trapezoidal sum is
incorrect. The student is not eligible for the answer point. In part (d) the student’s work did not earn any points.