AP® Calculus BC 2021 Scoring Commentary 

Question 5 (continued) 

Sample: 5B 
Score: 7 

The response earned 7 points: 1 point in part (a), 2 points in part (b), and 4 points in part (c). In part (a) the response 
earned the first point with a correct expression for the Taylor polynomial in line 2. Simplification is not necessary. 
The response did not earn the second point. While the correct approximation for 

2
f
 is shown in line 3 and in line 
4 on the left, the boxed result is simplified incorrectly. In part (b) the response earned the first point: two Euler steps 
are seen in the second and third rows of the table, the step size 
0.5
x


 is shown in the third column of the table, 

the correct expression for dy

dx is used to create the fourth column of the table, and the initial condition 

1
f
4 is 

shown in the first two entries of the second row of the table. Note that because the answer is correct in this case, the 
table does not need to be labeled. The response earned the second point with a correct answer below the table. In 
part (c) the response earned the first point with a correct separation of variables in line 3 on the left side of the page. 
The response earned the second point with a correct antiderivative of xln x in lines 1-5 on the right side of the page. 

The response earned the third point with a correct antiderivative of 1

y in line 4 on the left side of the page. The 

response is eligible for the fourth point as it has earned the first point and at least one of the antiderivative points. 
The response earned the fourth point with a correct inclusion of the constant of integration in line 3 on the left side 
of the page and the substitution of 1 for x and 4 for y in line 4 on the left side of the page. The response did not 
earn the fifth point as the answer in line 9 on the left side of the page is incorrect. Note that the answer given in line 
8 of the left side of the page is correct, but is simplified incorrectly. 

Sample: 5C 
Score: 4 

The response earned 4 points: no points in part (a), 1 point in part (b), and 3 points in part (c). In part (a) the response 
did not earn the first point because no correct Taylor polynomial is presented. The response did not earn the second 
point because no correct approximation for 

2
f
 is presented. In part (b) the response earned the first point: two 
Euler steps are shown in lines 2 and 3, the step size 
0.5
x


 is used in lines 2 and 3, the correct expression for the 
derivative is evaluated in lines 2 and 3, and the initial condition 

1
f
4 is stated in line 1. Note that the response 
contains a single error: the value of the approximation for 


1.5
f
 in line 2 is simplified incorrectly. Importing this 
incorrect value correctly into line 3 is not an error. Because only one mistake is made, the response is still eligible 
for the first point, which it earned. The response did not earn the second point because the boxed answer is incorrect. 
In part (c) the response earned the first point with a correct separation of variables in line 2 on the left side of the 
page. The response did not earn the second point as the antiderivative for xln x is incorrect. The response earned 

the third point with a correct antiderivative for 1

y in line 3 on the left side of the page. The response is eligible for 

the fourth point because it earned the first point and one of the two antiderivative points. The response earned the 
fourth point with a correct inclusion of a constant of integration in line 3 on the left side of the page and a correct 
substitution of 1 for x and 4 for y in line 5 on the left side of the page. The response is not eligible for the fifth 
point as it did not earn all of the first four points. 

© 2021 College Board.  
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 
