Source: https://help.desmos.com/hc/en-us/articles/49078363315725-API-Plans-for-Commercial-Use
Title: API Plans for Commercial Use – Desmos Help Center
Captured: 2026-09-29 by browser fetch of the article element

API Plans for Commercial Use

 Updated September 23, 2026 18:10

 After you get a trial API key, you can choose one of two plans for using the Desmos API commercially: Starter or Enterprise. In this article, you can learn additional details about the differences between these plans.To learn more about the API (including options for personal use), compare all features, and sign up for a trial key, visit our API page. Integration TypeStarter plans come with basic integration, while Enterprise plans come with full integration.BasicBasic integration lets you embed the Desmos Graphing, Scientific or Four-Function Calculators into your website or app. It also allows you to use any of the configuration options, including accessibility features and enabling or disabling various features to match assessments. Basic integration includes the functionality to match the calculator versions used on the digital SAT, ACT, and AP Exams.Basic integration doesn’t include saving and loading graphs, generating screenshots, or lower-level API methods for programmatically generating graphs (such as with an LLM) or grading graphs.FullFull integration supports all API methods as shown in the API documentation. With this integration type, you can choose from the Graphing, Scientific, Four-Function, and 3D Calculators, as well as the Geometry Tool.Full integration allows you to create and save interactive content for your end users. This includes both content created manually and content generated by LLMs. HostingThere are two ways to access the Desmos API:
Self-hosted (load from your own servers)
Desmos-hosted (load from desmos.com accessed via the API key)
The functionality available in Desmos tools is the same in either case. Self-hosting gives partners total separation in terms of infrastructure and privacy, as well as the option to use the tools without a network connection.The Starter plan is Desmos-hosted only. The Enterprise plan lets you choose between Desmos-hosted or self-hosted. Please reach out to partnerships@desmos.com with any questions or feedback.
