AP®
Calculus AB/BC 2023 Scoring Commentary
© 2023 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question 4
Note: Student samples are quoted verbatim and may contain spelling and grammatical errors.
Overview
In this problem the graph of , f ′ which consists of a semicircle and two line segments on the interval 2 8, x − ≤ ≤ is
provided. It is given that f is defined on the closed interval [ ] 2, 8 , − and that ( ) 2 1. f =
In part (a) students were asked to reason whether f has a relative minimum, relative maximum, or neither at
6. x = A correct response will use the given graph to reason that f ′ does not change signs at 6, x = although
( ) 6 0. f ′ = Therefore f has neither a relative maximum nor a relative minimum at this point.
In part (b) students were asked to find all open intervals where f is concave down. A correct response will reason
that a function is concave down when its first derivative is decreasing, and therefore f is concave down on the
intervals ( ) 2, 0 − and ( ) 4, 6 .
In part (c) students were asked to find
( )
2 2
6 3
lim
5 6 x
f x x
x x →
−
− +
or to show that this limit does not exist (and to justify their
answer). A correct response will report that as x approaches 2, both the numerator and denominator of this ratio
approach 0, and so L’Hospital’s Rule applies. Using L’Hospital’s Rule, the limit is shown to be 3.
In part (d) students were asked to find the absolute minimum value of f on the closed interval [ ] 2, 8 − with a
justification for their answer. A correct response will indicate the possible candidates for the location of the absolute
minimum are the interval endpoints and the critical points 1, 2, x x = − =and 6. x = A response could then
reference work from part (a) to eliminate 6 x = as the location of a relative (or absolute) minimum, and could use
the fact that the graph of f ′ changes from positive to negative at 1 x = − in order to argue that a relative maximum
occurs at 1. x = − In addition, the given graph of f ′ indicates that ( ) 0 f x ′ ≥ for 2, x > so the endpoint 8 x =
cannot be the location of the absolute minimum value. The value of ( ) 2 f is given in the stem of the problem, and
using geometry, ( ) ( )
2
2
2 1 3. f f x dx
−
′ − = + = ∫ Therefore, the absolute minimum value of f on this closed
interval is ( ) 2 1. f = (Alternatively, a response could evaluate the function f at each of these five points and
conclude that the absolute minimum is ( ) 2 1. f = )
Sample: 4A
Score: 9
The response earned 9 points: 1 point in part (a), 2 points in part (b), 3 points in part (c), and 3 points in part (d).
In part (a) the response earned the point with a correct conclusion of no relative maximum or minimum and
correct reasoning that there is no sign change for ( ) f x ′ at 6. x =
In part (b) the response earned 2 points. The first point was earned with correct presentation of the intervals of
concavity. The second point was earned with correct reasoning that ( ) f x ′ is decreasing on these intervals.
In part (c) the response earned 3 points. The first point was earned with correct presentation of limits of the
numerator and denominator. The second point was earned because the ratio of derivatives presented is correct.
The third point was earned with a correct answer.