41
© 2012 The College Board. Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org.
AP Exam Instructions
CALCULUS
After 10 minutes, say:
Stop working on Part A. Calculators are not allowed for Part B. Please put all
of your calculators under your chair. . . .
Turn to page 13. You have 1 hour for Part B. During this time you may go back
to Part A, but you may not use your calculator. Remember to write your
answer to each part of each problem in the appropriate space in the exam
booklet. Are there any questions? . . .
Using your finger, break open the seals on Part B. Do not peel the seals away
from the booklet. You may begin Part B. . . .
12
6
3 9
Note Start Time here . Note Stop Time here . After 50 minutes, say:
There are 10 minutes remaining in Part B.
After 10 minutes, say:
Stop working and close your exam booklet. Place it on your desk, face up. . . .
If any students used extra paper for the free-response section, have those students staple the extra
sheet/s to the first page corresponding to that question in their exam booklets. Then say:
Remain in your seat, without talking, while the exam materials
are collected. . . .
Collect a Section II exam booklet from each student. Check for the following:
• • Exam booklet front cover: The student placed an AP number label on the shaded box, and
printed his or her initials and today’s date.
• • Exam booklet back cover: The student completed the “Important Identification
Information” area.
When all exam materials have been collected and accounted for, return to students any electronic
devices you may have collected before the start of the exam.
If you are giving the regularly scheduled exam, say:
You may not discuss these specific free-response questions with anyone unless
they are released on the College Board website in about two days. You should
receive your score report in the mail about the third week of July.
If you are giving the alternate exam for late testing, say:
None of the questions in this exam may ever be discussed or shared in any way
at any time. You should receive your score report in the mail about the third week
of July.
If any students completed the AP number card at the beginning of this exam, say:
Please remember to take your AP number card with you.
Then say:
You are now dismissed.