38

© 2012 The College Board. Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org.

Calculus

Turn to the back cover and read it completely. Look up when you  
have finished. . . .

Are there any questions? . . .

Section I is the multiple-choice portion of the exam. You may never discuss 
these specific multiple-choice questions at any time in any form with anyone, 
including your teacher and other students. If you disclose these questions 
through any means, your AP Exam score will be canceled. Are there any 
questions? . . .

You must complete the answer sheet using a No. 2 pencil only. Mark 
all of your responses on your answer sheet, one response per question. 
Completely fill in the circles. If you need to erase, do so carefully and 
completely. No credit will be given for anything written in the exam 
booklet. Scratch paper is not allowed, but you may use the margins or 
any blank space in the exam booklet for scratch work. 

Section I is divided into two parts. Each part is timed separately, and you 
may work on each part only during the time allotted for it. Calculators are 
not allowed in Part A. Please put your calculators under your chair. Are there 
any questions? . . .

You have 55 minutes for Part A. Part A questions are numbered 1 through 28. 
Mark your responses for these questions on page 2 of your answer sheet. 
Open your Section I booklet and begin. 

12

6
3
9
 

Note Start Time here 
. Note Stop Time here 
. Check that students are 
marking their answers in pencil on page 2 of their answer sheets and that they are not looking 
beyond Part A. The line of A’s at the top of each page will assist you in monitoring students’ work. 
After 55 minutes, say:

Stop working on Part A and turn to page 22 in your Section I booklet. . . .

On that page, you should see an area marked “PLACE SEAL HERE.” Making 
sure all of your other exam materials, including your answer sheet, are out 
of the way, take one of your seals and press it on that area and then fold 
the seal over the open edge to the front cover. Be sure you don’t seal the 
Part B section of the booklet or let the seal touch anything except the 
marked areas. . . .

After all students have sealed Part A, say:

Graphing calculators are required for Part B. You may get your calculators 
from under your chair and place them on your desk. Part B questions are 
numbered 76 through 92. Fold your answer sheet so only page 3 is showing 
and mark your responses for these questions on that page. You have  
50 minutes for Part B. You may begin.

12

6
3
9
 

Note Start Time here 
. Note Stop Time here 
. Check that students have 
sealed their booklets properly and are now working on Part B. The large B’s in an alternating 
shaded pattern at the top of each page will assist you in monitoring their work. Proctors should 
