DO NOT OPEN THIS BOOKLET OR BREAK THE SEALS ON PART B UNTIL YOU ARE TOLD TO DO SO.

At a Glance

Total Time

1 hour, 30 minutes
Number of Questions

6
Percent of Total Score

50%
Writing Instrument

Either pencil or pen with
black or dark blue ink
Weight

The questions are
weighted equally, but
the parts of a question
are not necessarily
given equal weight.

Part A

Number of Questions

2
Time

30 minutes
Electronic Device

Graphing calculator
required
Percent of Section II Score

33.3%

Part B

Number of Questions

4
Time

60 minutes
Electronic Device

None allowed
Percent of Section II Score

66.6%

Instructions
The questions for Section II are printed in this booklet. Do not break the seals on Part B
until you are told to do so. Write your solution to each part of each question in the space
provided. Write clearly and legibly. Cross out any errors you make; erased or crossed-out
work will not be scored.

Manage your time carefully. During the timed portion for Part A, work only on the
questions in Part A. You are permitted to use your calculator to solve an equation, find
the derivative of a function at a point, or calculate the value of a definite integral.
However, you must clearly indicate the setup of your question, namely the equation,
function, or integral you are using. If you use other built-in features or programs, you
must show the mathematical steps necessary to produce your results. During the timed
portion for Part B, you may continue to work on the questions in Part A without the use
of a calculator.

For each part of Section II, you may wish to look over the questions before starting to
work on them. It is not expected that everyone will be able to complete all parts of all
questions.
• Show all of your work. Clearly label any functions, graphs, tables, or other objects that
you use. Your work will be scored on the correctness and completeness of your methods
as well as your answers. Answers without supporting work will usually not receive
credit. Justifications require that you give mathematical (noncalculator) reasons.
• Your work must be expressed in standard mathematical notation rather than calculator

syntax. For example, _{1}

5
x2 dx may not be written as fnInt(X2, X, 1, 5).

• Unless otherwise specified, answers (numeric or algebraic) need not be simplified. If you
use decimal approximations in calculations, your work will be scored on accuracy.
Unless otherwise specified, your final answers should be accurate to three places after
the decimal point.
• Unless otherwise specified, the domain of a function f is assumed to be the set of all
real numbers x for which fx is a real number.

AP

® Calculus BC Exam

SECTION II: Free Response
2012

Form I
Form Code 4IBP-S2

68
Minimum 20% post-consumer waste
