37

© 2012 The College Board. Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org.

AP Exam Instructions

CALCULUS

the calculator to remove exam questions and/or answers from the room may result in the 
cancellation of AP Exam scores. 

The AP Calculus AB Exam and the AP Calculus BC Exam should be administered 
simultaneously. They may be administered in separate rooms, or in the same room if it is  
more convenient. 

SECTION I: Multiple Choice
 !

	Do not begin the exam instructions below until you have completed the appropriate 

General Instructions for your group.

These exams include survey questions. The time allowed for the survey questions is in addition to 
the actual test-taking time. 

Make sure you begin the exams at the designated time. 

If you are giving the regularly scheduled exam, say:

It is Wednesday morning, May 9, and you will be taking either the AP Calculus AB 
Exam or the AP Calculus BC Exam.

If you are giving the alternate exam for late testing, say:

It is Thursday morning, May 24, and you will be taking either the AP Calculus AB 
Exam or the AP Calculus BC Exam.

In a moment, you will open the packet that contains your exam materials. 

By opening this packet, you agree to all of the AP Program’s policies and 
procedures outlined in the 2011-12 Bulletin for AP Students and Parents. 
Please check to make sure you have the correct exam: Calculus AB or 
Calculus BC. Raise your hand if you do not have the correct exam. . . .

You may now remove the shrinkwrap from your exam packet and take out 
the Section I booklet, but do not open the booklet or the shrinkwrapped 
Section II materials. Put the white seals aside. . . .

Look at page 1 of your answer sheet and locate the dark blue box near the  
top right-hand corner that states, “Take the AP Exam label from your Section I 
booklet and place the label here.”. . .

Now look at the front cover of your exam booklet and locate the AP Exam 
label near the top left of the cover. . . .

Carefully peel off the AP Exam label and place it on your answer sheet on  
the dark blue box that we just identified. . . .

Now read the statements on the front cover of Section I and look up  
when you have finished. . . .

Sign your name and write today’s date. Look up when you have finished. . . .

Now print your full legal name where indicated. Are there any questions? . . .
