35
© 2012 The College Board. Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org.
AP® Calculus BC Exam
Regularly Scheduled Exam Date: Wednesday morning, May 9, 2012
Late-Testing Exam Date: Thursday morning, May 24, 2012
Section I: Multiple Choice Booklet Instructions
Section II: Free Response Booklet Instructions
Section I of this exam contains 45 multiple-choice questions and
4 survey questions. For Part A, fill in only the circles for numbers
1 through 28 on page 2 of the answer sheet. For Part B, fill in only
the circles for numbers 76 through 92 on page 3 of the answer sheet. The
survey questions are numbers 93 through 96.
Indicate all of your answers to the multiple-choice questions on the answer
sheet. No credit will be given for anything written in this exam booklet, but
you may use the booklet for notes or scratch work. After you have decided
which of the suggested answers is best, completely fill in the corresponding
circle on the answer sheet. Give only one answer to each question. If you
change an answer, be sure that the previous mark is erased completely.
Use your time effectively, working as quickly as you can without
losing accuracy. Do not spend too much time on any one question.
Go on to other questions and come back to the ones you have not answered if
you have time. It is not expected that everyone will know the answers to all of
the multiple-choice questions.
Your total score on the multiple-choice section is based only on the number
ofquestionsansweredcorrectly.Pointsarenotdeductedforincorrectanswers
or unanswered questions.
Section I: At a Glance
Total Time: 1 hour, 45 minutes
Number of Questions: 45
Percent of Total Score: 50%
Writing Instrument:
Pencil Required
Part A:
Number of Questions: 28
Time: 55 minutes
Electronic Device:
None allowed
Part B:
Number of Questions: 17
Time: 50 minutes
Electronic Device:
Graphing calculator required
Section II: At a Glance
Total Time: 1 hour, 30 minutes
Number of Questions: 6
Percent of Total Score: 50%
Writing Instrument:
Either pencil or pen with black
or dark blue ink
Weight:
The questions are weighted
equally, but the parts of a
question are not necessarily
given equal weight.
Part A:
Number of Questions: 2
Time: 30 minutes
Electronic Device:
Graphing calculator required
Percent of Section II Score:
33.3%
Part B:
Number of Questions: 4
Time: 60 minutes
Electronic Device:
None allowed
Percent of Section II Score:
66.6%
The questions for Section II are printed in this booklet. Do not break the seals
on Part B until you are told to do so. Write your solution to each part of each
question in the space provided. Write clearly and legibly. Cross out any errors
you make; erased or crossed-out work will not be scored.
Manage your time carefully. During the timed portion for Part A, work only
on the questions in Part A. You are permitted to use your calculator to solve
an equation, find the derivative of a function at a point, or calculate the value
of a definite integral. However, you must clearly indicate the setup of your
question, namely the equation, function, or integral you are using. If you use
other built-in features or programs, you must show the mathematical steps
necessary to produce your results. During the timed portion for Part B,
you may continue to work on the questions in Part A without the use of a
calculator.
For each part of Section II, you may wish to look over the questions before
starting to work on them. It is not expected that everyone will be able to
complete all parts of all questions.
• 	 Show all of your work. Clearly label any functions, graphs, tables, or other
objects that you use. Your work will be scored on the correctness and
completeness of your methods as well as your answers. Answers without
supporting work will usually not receive credit. Justifications require that
you give mathematical (noncalculator) reasons.
•	 Your work must be expressed in standard mathematical notation rather
than calculator syntax. For example, may not be written as
.
• 	 Unless otherwise specified, answers (numeric or algebraic) need not be
simplified. If you use decimal approximations in calculations, your work
will be scored on accuracy. Unless otherwise specified, your final answers
should be accurate to three places after the decimal point.
• 	 Unlessotherwisespecified,thedomainofafunction isassumedtobethe
set of all real numbers x for which is a real number.