39
© 2012 The College Board. Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org.
AP Exam Instructions
CALCULUS
make sure that students are using their calculators appropriately. Proctors should also make sure
Hewlett-Packard calculators’ infrared ports are not facing each other. After 50 minutes, say:
Stop working and turn to page 38. You have 3 minutes to answer Questions
93–96. These are survey questions and will not affect your score. You may
not go back to work on any of the exam questions. . . .
Give students approximately 3 minutes to answer the survey questions. Then say:
Close your booklet and put your answer sheet on your desk, face up. Make
sure you have your AP number label and an AP Exam label on page 1 of
your answer sheet. I will now collect your answer sheet.
Collect an answer sheet from each student. Check that each answer sheet has an AP number label
and an AP Exam label. Then say:
Now you must seal your Section I booklet. Remove the remaining white
seals from the backing and press one on each area of your exam booklet
cover marked “PLACE SEAL HERE.” Fold each seal over the back cover.
When you have finished, place the booklet on your desk, face up. I will now
collect your Section I booklet. . . .
Check that each student has signed the front cover of the sealed Section I booklet. There is a
10-minute break between Sections I and II. When all Section I materials have been collected and
accounted for and you are ready for the break, say:
Please listen carefully to these instructions before we take a 10-minute
break. Everything you placed under your chair at the beginning of the exam
must stay there. Leave your shrinkwrapped Section II packet on top of
your desk during the break. You are not allowed to consult teachers, other
students, or textbooks about the exam during the break. You may not make
phone calls, send text messages, use your calculators, check email, use a
social networking site, or access any electronic or communication device.
Remember, you are not allowed to discuss the multiple-choice section of
this exam. Failure to adhere to any of these rules could result in cancellation
of your score. Are there any questions? . . .
12
6
3 9
You may begin your break. Testing will resume at .
SECTION II: Free Response
After the break, say:
May I have everyone’s attention? Place your Student Pack on your desk. . . .
You may now remove the shrinkwrap from the Section II packet, but do not
open the Section II exam booklet until you are told to do so. . . .
Read the bulleted statements on the front cover of the exam booklet. Look
up when you have finished. . . .
Now place an AP number label on the shaded box. If you don’t have any
AP number labels, write your AP number in the box. Look up when you
have finished. . . .