40
© 2012 The College Board. Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org.
Calculus
Read the last statement. . . .
Using your pen, print the first, middle and last initials of your legal name
in the boxes and print today’s date where indicated. This constitutes your
signature and your agreement to the statements on the front cover. . . .
Turn to the back cover and read Item 1 under “Important Identification
Information.” Print the first two letters of your last name and the first letter
of your first name in the boxes. Look up when you have finished. . . .
In Item 2, print your date of birth in the boxes. . . .
In Item 3, write the school code you printed on the front of your Student
Pack in the boxes. . . .
Read Item 4. . . .
Are there any questions? . . .
I need to collect the Student Pack from anyone who will be taking another
AP Exam. You may keep it only if you are not taking any other AP Exams this
year. If you have no other AP Exams to take, place your Student Pack under
your chair now. . . .
While Student Packs are being collected, read the information on the back
cover of the exam booklet, paying careful attention to the bulleted statements
in the instructions. Do not open the exam booklet or break the seals in the
exam booklet until you are told to do so. Look up when you have finished. . . .
Collect the Student Packs. Then say:
Are there any questions? . . .
Section II also has two parts that are timed separately. You are responsible
for pacing yourself, and may proceed freely from one question to the next
within each part. Graphing calculators are required for Part A, so you may
keep your calculators on your desk. You must write your answers in the
appropriate space in the exam booklet using a No. 2 pencil or a pen with
black or dark blue ink. Do not break the seals for Part B at this time.
Are there any questions? . . .
You have 30 minutes to answer the questions in Part A. If you need more
paper during the exam, raise your hand. At the top of each extra piece of
paper you use, be sure to write only your AP number and the number of
the question you are working on. Do not write your name. Open your exam
booklet and begin.
12
6
3 9
Note Start Time here . Note Stop Time here . Check that students are
working on Part A only and writing their answers in their exam booklets using pencils or pens
with black or dark blue ink. The pages for the Part A questions are marked with large 1’s and 2’s
at the top of each page to assist you in monitoring their work. After 20 minutes, say:
There are 10 minutes remaining in Part A.