AP® CALCULUS BC 
2013 SCORING COMMENTARY 
 

© 2013 The College Board.  
Visit the College Board on the Web: www.collegeboard.org. 

Question 5 
 
Overview 
 
This problem presented students with a differential equation and defined 

y
f x

 to be the particular solution to 
the differential equation satisfying a given initial condition. Part (a) asked students to compute a limit of an 
expression involving 
,
f x
 which required students to apply L’Hospital’s Rule. Part (b) asked students to use 
Euler’s method with two steps of equal size to approximate 

f x at a value near the point given by the initial 
condition. Part (c) asked for the particular solution to the differential equation satisfying the given initial 
condition. Students should have used the method of separation of variables to solve the differential equation. 
 
Sample: 5A  
Score: 9 
 
The student earned all 9 points. 
 
Sample: 5B 
Score: 6 
 
The student earned 6 points: 2 points in part (b) and 4 points in part (c). The work in part (a) will not lead to an 
application of L’Hospital’s Rule. In part (b) the student’s work is correct. In part (c) the student has a correct 
separation of variables and the correct antiderivatives. The student correctly places the constant of integration and 
uses the initial condition. The student does not correctly solve for y and did not earn the fifth point. 
 
Sample: 5C 
Score: 3 
 
The student earned 3 points: 2 points in part (b) and 1 point in part (c). In part (a) the student describes the 
conditions for using L’Hospital’s Rule. The student imports an incorrect function from part (c). This function 
does not produce an indeterminate form; therefore, the application of L’Hospital’s Rule is incorrect. The student 
did not earn any points in part (a). In part (b) the student’s work is correct. In part (c) the student shows the 

separation of variables. The student incorrectly uses a logarithm when taking the antiderivative of 
2
1 .
y

 The 

student did not earn the antiderivatives point or any of the remaining points. 
