Rev. 12/9/2022 

If School uses a College Board endorsed provider for instructional support, College 
Board may share aggregated school-level data with said endorsed provider. Endorsed 
provider lists can be found on the corresponding course pages in AP Central. 

If a School district ("District") requests access to Data of Schools and Students within its 
district, College Board® will not provide such access unless District provides a 
representation to College Board that it has authorization or consent from the Schools 
within its District to access Data. Upon receipt of such representation, College Board 
may provide authorized users of District with access to Data. 

End Users 

End Users must keep their access credentials (such as username and password) for AP 
Services confidential and may not share this information with anyone else. College 
Board will not be responsible for any loss or damage arising from unauthorized use of 
your account. You agree to promptly notify College Board in the event of any 
unauthorized use or compromise of your account. College Board may, in its sole 
discretion, suspend or cancel a School or End User account at any time, with or without 
notice or cause. 

College Board provides a license to each End User to access and use AP Services 
subject to these AP Services T&C. End User licenses are dependent on the End User 
being an authorized user of a School. 

Educators 

Educators access AP Services as authorized users of their respective Schools. 

AP coordinators, Pre-AP coordinators, and their delegates may: 

• 
order exams for eligible Students, designate eligible Students for exam fee 
reduction status, and view and edit Students' exam registration status and AP 
class rosters and Pre-AP class rosters; 
• 
generate join codes for Students to access classes on AP Classroom and 
Pre-AP Classroom; 
• 
view reporting data related to classes on AP Classroom and Pre-AP 
Classroom; and 
• 
access professional development resources for AP coordinators and Pre-AP 
coordinators. 
