Rev. 12/9/2022
Educator Content
Educators may be able to create and share content (“Educator Content”) in AP
Classroom and Pre-AP Classroom, including authoring questions, answers, and
explanations, (“Teacher-Authored Questions”). Educators may also be able to create
quizzes and share those quizzes with other Educators (“Educator Quizzes”), who may
provide access to other Educators and End Users, including Students. Educators with
whom Educator Quizzes have been shared may be able to change, modify, edit and/or
revise (collectively, “Modify”) Teacher-Authored Questions that have been shared with
them, and such Modifications do not require the consent of College Board or any
Educator. Teacher-Authored Questions are flagged to other Educators in AP
Classroom, and flags may be visible to other End Users, including Students. Educators
may only use their own, original content to create Teacher-Authored Questions, and
Educators may only use their own, original content to make Modifications to Teacher-
Authored Questions. Educators may not Modify questions or any other content
authored by College Board. Educators are solely responsible for their Educator Content,
including Modifications they make, which are also Educator Content. Educators
indemnify and hold harmless College Board from all claims, judgements, awards and
expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) that arise from the creation,
Modification or use of their Educator Content. College Board does not review or
endorse any Educator Content, and College Board makes no representations,
guarantees or warranties of any kind about Educator Content (including that the
Educator Content is aligned to the Course and Exam Description, non-infringing, non-
defamatory, lawful, or correct). Educators create, share and use Educator Content at
their own risk. Educators grant College Board an unlimited, worldwide, royalty-free,
perpetual, sublicensable, assignable license to their Educator Content.
Arbitration
All disputes between School and College Board shall exclusively be resolved by a
single arbitrator through binding, individual arbitration administered by the American
Arbitration Association ("AAA") under the AAA Commercial Arbitration Rules in effect at
the time a request for arbitration is filed with the AAA. In-person proceedings shall be
conducted in New York City; however, the arbitrator may conduct proceedings via video
or telephonic-call.
All disputes between any End User and College Board, including whether the dispute is
arbitrable, shall exclusively be resolved by a single arbitrator through binding, individual
arbitration administered by the AAA under the AAA Consumer Arbitration Rules in effect
at the time a request for arbitration is filed with the AAA. Copies of the AAA Rules can