Rev. 12/9/2022
Student PII collected on AP Classroom and Pre-AP Classroom is subject to the Family
Educational Rights and Privacy Act ("FERPA"). College Board will be considered a
"School Official" (as that term is used in FERPA and its implementing regulations) and
will comply with FERPA with respect to such PII. To the extent that any other data
collected through the use of AP Services includes educational records subject to
FERPA, College Board will be considered a "School Official" (as that term is used in
FERPA and its implementing regulations) and will comply with FERPA.
AP Classroom and Pre-AP Classroom are hosted on a platform owned by Prometric.
Prometric and trusted vendors that help deliver AP Classroom and Pre-AP Classroom
are prohibited from using data for any purpose other than delivering services to College
Board.
College Board may use Data for its internal research purposes. College Board may also
disclose aggregated and/or de-identified Data with trusted third parties.
Intellectual Property
AP Services, and all content available through AP Services, including but not limited to
questions, answers, video and audio recordings, text, images, animations, and all other
content and materials (collectively, "Content"), are protected under the Copyright Law of
the United States and are the sole property of College Board.
Content may not be performed, distributed, downloaded, uploaded, modified, reused,
reproduced, reposted, retransmitted, disseminated, sold, published, broadcast,
circulated or otherwise used in any way without express written permission of College
Board. Any modification of the Content, or any portion thereof, or use of the Content for
any other purpose constitutes an infringement of College Board copyrights and other
proprietary rights.
College Board, AP, Pre-AP, SAT, Advanced Placement, AP Classroom, Pre-AP
Classroom, Big Future, and the acorn logo are trademarks of College Board. Khan
Academy is a registered trademark in the United States and other jurisdictions. You
acquire no rights under these AP Services T&C to use any College Board trademarks.