Rev. 12/9/2022
be located at adr.org (opens in new window). The proceedings should be conducted at
a location which is reasonably convenient to both parties with due consideration of their
ability to travel and other pertinent circumstances. If the parties are unable to agree on a
location, the parties agree that the proceedings will be conducted through documentary
submissions and/or via a video or telephonic call or, in the event that face-to-face
proceedings are agreed to by the parties or required by the arbitrator, at a location that
is reasonably convenient to both parties in accordance with the AAA Consumer
Arbitration Rules.
The Federal Arbitration Act ("FAA") 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. governs this arbitration
provision, and the FAA shall preempt all State laws to the fullest extent permitted by
law.
No arbitration may be maintained as a class or collective action, and the arbitrator shall
not have the authority to combine or aggregate the disputes of more than one individual,
conduct any class or collective proceeding, make any class or collective award, or make
an award to any person or entity not a party to the arbitration, without the express
written consent of College Board.
By agreeing to arbitration in accordance with this section, you are waiving your right to
have your dispute heard by a judge or jury except as set forth below.
Each party will be responsible for its own fees and expenses and any legal fees
incurred in connection with the arbitration except that College Board will pay your AAA
filing fee if you are an End User. This does not preclude the arbitrator from granting
relief in accordance with AAA Consumer Arbitration Rules.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if School is unable, as a matter of applicable law or
regulation, to agree to arbitration clauses, then School shall not be subject to this
arbitration clause.
LIMITATION OF LIABILITIES
TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL COLLEGE BOARD BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, REGARDLESS OF THE NATURE OF THE