AP Calculus BC Course – AP Central | College Board

The Course

AP Calculus BC

Sign In to AP Classroom

Adopt AP Calculus BC at Your School

Explore the Benefits

Clarifications and Exam Updates for 2026-27

The AP Calculus AB and BC Course and Exam Description has been updated to include minor clarifications for the 2026-27 school year. These clarifications reflect feedback from AP Calculus teachers and are designed to improve mathematical clarity and exam administration. Course content has not changed.
The number of multiple-choice questions and the timing on the AP Calculus AB and BC Exams have also been updated. The updates will be effective starting with the May 2027 exams.

Learn More (.pdf)

Course Overview

AP Calculus BC is an introductory college-level calculus course. Students cultivate their understanding of differential and integral calculus through engaging with real-world problems represented graphically, numerically, analytically, and verbally and using definitions and theorems to build arguments and justify conclusions as they explore concepts like change, limits, and the analysis of functions.

Course and Exam Description

Download

AP Calculus AB and BC Course and Exam Description

This is the core document for this course. Unit guides clearly lay out the course content and skills and recommend sequencing and pacing for them throughout the year.

PDF

7.63 MB

Download

AP Calculus AB and BC Course and Exam Description Clarifications and Corrections

This document provides teachers with clarifications and/or corrections for the AP Calculus AB and BC Course and Exam Description.

PDF

125.93 KB

Course Resources

Download

AP Calculus BC Course Overview

This resource provides a succinct description of the course and exam.

PDF

193.65 KB

Download

AP Calculus Course at a Glance

Excerpted from the AP Calculus AB and BC Course and Exam Description, the Course at a Glance document outlines the topics and skills covered in the AP Calculus courses, along with suggestions for sequencing.

PDF

449.63 KB

Link

The Difference Between AP Calculus AB and AP Calculus BC

Learn the similarities and differences between these two courses and exams.

Download

AP Calculus AB and BC Course at a Glance Poster

Print the Course at a Glance poster to use for reference in the classroom.

PDF

272.38 KB

Course Content

This course framework provides a clear and detailed description of the course requirements necessary for student success. The framework specifies what students must know, be able to do, and understand, with a focus on big ideas that encompass core principles, theories, and processes of the discipline. The framework also encourages instruction that prepares students for advanced coursework in mathematics or other fields engaged in modeling change (e.g., pure sciences, engineering, or economics) and for creating useful, reasonable solutions to problems encountered in an ever-changing world.
The AP Calculus BC framework is organized into 10 commonly taught units of study that provide one possible sequence for the course. As always, you have the flexibility to organize the course content as you like.
Unit
Exam Weighting (Multiple-Choice Section)

Unit 1: Limits and Continuity
5%–10%

Unit 2: Differentiation: Definition and Fundamental Properties
5%–10%

Unit 3: Differentiation: Composite, Implicit, and Inverse Functions
5%–10%

Unit 4: Contextual Applications of Differentiation
5%–10%

Unit 5: Analytical Applications of Differentiation
10%–15%

Unit 6: Integration and Accumulation of Change
15%–20%

Unit 7: Differential Equations
5%–10%

Unit 8: Applications of Integration
5%–10%

Unit 9: Parametric Equations, Polar Coordinates, and Vector-Valued Functions
10%–15%

Unit 10: Infinite Sequences and Series
15%–20%

Mathematical Practices
The AP Calculus BC framework included in the course and exam description outlines distinct skills, called Mathematical Practices, that students should practice throughout the year—skills that will help them learn to think and act like mathematicians.
Description
Exam Weighting (Multiple-Choice Section)
Exam Weighting (Free-Response Section)

Determine expressions and values using mathematical procedures and rules.
50%–70%
35%–60%

Translate mathematical information from a single representation or across multiple representations.
15%–30%
10%–20%

Justify reasoning and solutions.
10%–20%
35%–60%

Use correct notation, language, and mathematical conventions to communicate results or solutions.
Only assessed in the free-response section.
10%–25%

AP and Higher Education

Higher education professionals play a key role in developing AP courses and exams, setting credit and placement policies, and scoring student work. The AP Higher Education section features information on recruitment and admission, advising and placement, and more.
This chart shows recommended scores for granting credit, and how much credit should be awarded, for each AP course. Your students can look up credit and placement policies for colleges and universities on the AP Credit Policy Search.

AP Course and Exam Development

The AP Program is unique in its reliance on development committees for their initial and ongoing voice in course and exam development. These committees, made up of an equal number of college faculty and experienced secondary AP teachers from across the country, are essential to the preparation of AP course curricula and exams.

Article

How AP Develops Courses and Exams

Learn what the development committees do and the methodology they use to develop AP courses and exams.

Article

AP Development Committees

Find development committee information for all AP courses.
