© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skill(s) required on this question?
Part A: Most responses earned P1 for a correct answer with setup. When P1 was not earned, it was usually because the setup
was insufficient.
Part B: Most responses earned P2 for an integrand involving (r(θ))2
. P3 was more difficult to earn, but most responses that
earned P2 also earned P3. Relatively few responses earned P4 for the correct answer, which required correctly handling the
constant factor of
1
2
, finding correct limits of integration, and evaluation of the definite integral.
Part C: Most responses earned P5 by considering
dx
= 0
dθ
. The point could have also been earned without specific reference
to
dx
= 0 with language such as “the sign of
dθ
dx
θ d
is changing” or “critical point.” The most common response for P6
involved using the candidates test to present values of x(θ) for θ = 0.955317 and the endpoints of the interval, and a few
responses were able to earn P6. Common errors resulting in not earning P6 are discussed in the next section. Most responses
that earned P6 also earned P7 for the correct answer.
Part D: About a quarter of responses earned P8 with a correct product of derivatives, and slightly fewer than that earned P9
for the correct (or consistent) answer.
What common student misconceptions or gaps in knowledge were seen in the responses to this
question?
Part A: The most common reason a response did not earn P1 was the lack of providing a setup. Some responses only showed
an answer. Some responses with less than perfect communication earned P1, nonetheless.
Part B: The most common error seen on responses was failing to square r(θ), which resulted in not earning P2. Responses
that did not earn P2 typically did not earn P3 or P4, so it is difficult to determine if there were difficulties with the constant
and limits of integration.
Part C: Many responses presented incorrect, incomplete, or insufficient global arguments (which can be seen in the following
section) and did not earn P6. There were responses that did not earn P7 because the correct answer was presented with
insufficient supporting work.
Part D: Some responses did not earn P8 because of multiplying 15 by the wrong derivative such as
dx
dt
,
dr
dt
, or
d
dr
θ . Very
few responses that earned P8 failed to earn P9. This was usually due to decimal presentation errors.