© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve student performance on the exam?
• Student performance on this question offered evidence of limited understanding of features of polar curves
introduced in precalculus courses. For example, in part B, students tended to earn points associated with polar area
and then missed P4, often because they were unable to identify the correct limits of integration. In part C many
either did not know that x(θ) = r(θ)cosθ or were unsuccessful in applying that knowledge. It is a good idea to
presume that students require just-in-time review of content and skills you might think they would have mastered in
earlier coursework.
• Even though this is a calculator-active question, responses need to show setups to earn points in parts A, B, and D
and to write a justification in part C. Students need to practice writing appropriate setups for answers found using a
calculator and justifications for calculus-based conclusions.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content
and skill(s) required on this question?
In addition to AP Videos for each topic on AP Classroom, there are sets of AP Exam Review videos, which can be found on
the “Review” link after the Practice Exams link on the bottom of the Overview section.
• Practice Session 3: FRQ (Calculator Active) from the 2024 AP Exam On-Demand Review works through
precalculus and calculus concepts and skills associated with a polar curve. This video explores in detail how to
determine intervals of θ needed to determine areas of various regions defined by a polar curve, as well as whether
points on the polar curve are getting closer to or farther away based on the relative signs of r(θ) and
dr
dθ
.
• Practice Session 2: FRQ (Calculator Active) from the 2023 AP Exam On-Demand Review is a comprehensive
review of a variety of topics associated with polar curves and an excellent preparation in advance of the AP Exam.
o Part A begins with the formula for polar area and goes on to provide useful tips for finding the limits of
integration needed and for using a calculator to evaluate a definite integral to find area (e.g., use rectangular
and not polar mode).
o Part B of this FRQ models how to justify an absolute maximum distance from the origin. Recall that r gives
the distance from the origin, so this optimization problem begins by finding critical points for r(θ).
o Part C asks for the average distance from the curve to the y-axis. The video reminds us that x gives the
distance from the curve to the y-axis and that average distance is the average value of x . To complete the
setup for this solution, we need to recall that x = r(θ)cosθ , so x = r(θ)cosθ .
o Part D introduces a particle moving along the path of the polar curve and asks for an interpretation of an
integral expression.