© 2025 College Board. 

Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 

Part D required using the Extreme Value Theorem to find the value of x where an absolute minimum value of g occurs on the 
given interval. P7 was earned for considering g x
′( ) = 0. A response earned P8 for presenting a correct global justification 

of where the absolute minimum occurs. P9 was earned by drawing the correct conclusion that the absolute minimum value 
occurred at x = 0 . 

How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the 
responses integrate the skill(s) required on this question? 

Part A: Many responses earned both P1 and P2 by stating g
f
′(8) =
(8
1
) =
. 

Part B: Less than half of responses earned P3 for identifying the three values of x. Less than a quarter of responses earned P4 
for providing a reason for their answer. 

Part C: P5 and P6 could be earned with or without supporting work. Most responses earned P5 and slightly fewer earned P6. 

To earn P6, a response had to correctly handle the reversal in the limits of integration to find that 
9
g(0) = −2

π . Although 

showing calculations was not necessary, some responses showed their work to find the area of the triangle over the interval 

6 ≤
≤
x
12 or the area of the semicircle on the interval 0 ≤x
6
≤
. 

Part D: Many responses earned P7 for considering g x
′( ) = 0. Most responses chose to use the candidates test as the 

justification to earn P8. Some were successful and earned P9 by presenting the correct answer of x = 0 . 

What common student misconceptions or gaps in knowledge were seen in the responses to this 
question? 

Common Misconceptions/Knowledge Gaps 
Responses that Demonstrate Understanding  

Part A 
 

• 
Some responses attempted to apply the Fundamental 
Theorem of Calculus but incorrectly handled the limits 
of integration, stating that g′(x) = f (x) −f (6) . This 

was the most common error seen for responses that 
attempted to answer this part. 

• 
Some responses stated that g′(x) = f (x) dx or 

f (t) dt . If they went on to successfully find g′(8) , this 

presentation error was considered to be resolved and the 
response earned P2. If not, the response did not earn P2. 

• 
Some responses found g′(8
1
) =
 incorrectly, by finding 

the area between f and the x-axis from x = 6 to x = 8. 
This is the value of g(8) , and happens to also be equal 

to 1. P2 was not awarded if it was clear that this was 
how the value was determined. 

• 
g′(x) = f (x) 

g
f
′(8) =
(8
1
) =
 
