© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Part B: Most responses attempted to evaluate
dy
dx
at (2, 1 − ), with more than half earning P3 for reporting the correct value
of the slope of
1
−
4
. Errors made in the evaluation are discussed in the next section. A response that did not earn P3 could
earn P4 using an incorrect slope and the point (2, −1) for their tangent line approximation.
Part C: Most responses earned P5 by correctly setting the denominator of
dy
dx
equal to 0. Because both x and y had to be
positive, many responses also earned P6 by eliminating the negative y-value to find y = 1.
Part D: Many responses earned P7 because the point could be awarded for an implicit derivative with respect to t with at
most one error. Fewer responses earned P8 for the completely correct derivative. A response had to have earned P7 and P8
to earn P9 and most responses that earned P7 and P8 went on to earn P9.
What common student misconceptions or gaps in knowledge were seen in the responses to this
question?
Part A: Some responses struggled with notation for the implicit function while others forgot the “= 0” on the right side of
the equation. In these instances, most responses were unable to recover from the errors and did not earn P1 or P2.
Part B: While most responses set up the equation of the tangent line in point-slope form, many had multiple sign and
parentheses errors when trying to isolate y, even though isolating y was not required.
Part C: Some responses set both the numerator and denominator equal to zero and correctly solved for y, but a response
could earn both points without showing that the numerator is not also equal to 0 when y = 1.
Part D: Responses could earn P7 and P8 using notation such as x′, y′, dx, and dy , provided it was clear that they were
differentiating with respect to t. The most common reason for not earning P9 was a sign error.
Common Misconceptions/Knowledge Gaps Responses that Demonstrate Understanding
Part A
• Using inappropriate notation, such as using dy in place
of
dy
dx
or
dy
dx
in place of
d
dx
• Dropping the “= 0” that should appear on the right side
of the equation after implicit differentiation
• Omitting appropriate parenthesis, as in
dy
3 2 1
y y − 2 1 − ⋅ =− x
dx 2
• Using separation of variables instead of implicit
differentiation
•
d d
( 3 2 1
y − y − + y x2
)= (0)
dx 4 dx
dy
3 2 2 dy dy x
y ⋅ − y ⋅ − + = 0
dx dx dx 2
(3 2
2 1)dy x
y y − − = −
dx 2
dy x
= −
dx 2 3 ( y y 2
− − 2 1)