© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve student performance on the exam?
• Student responses offered evidence that teachers are doing a great job guiding students in the use of calculators.
However, some responses would have benefited from a better understanding of which functions should be used for
derivatives, integrals, and evaluations. For example, to find the average value of C over an interval of time in part A,
the integrand should be C(t). Help students to understand that
1 4
C′(t) dt
4 ∫0
is not the correct setup to answer this
question, but that it does answer a different question:
1 1 4
C′(t) dt = (C(4 0 ) − C( ))
4 4 ∫ , which is the average rate of
change of C over the time interval
0
0 ≤ t 4 ≤ . That is,
1 4
C′(t) dt
4 ∫0
gives the average value for C t ′( ) over the time
interval 0 ≤ t 4 ≤ . Encouraging students to take the time to think about the meaning of their work helps them to
develop genuine understanding.
• Calculus offers many opportunities for just-in-time review of precalculus topics. For example, emphasizing that end
behavior of a function is describing what happens as the independent variable approaches positive or negative
infinity is an opportunity to help students to make connections with past learning about horizontal asymptotes.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content
and skill(s) required on this question?
Reasoning and justification involving differentiation were important skills in part D of this question. Unit 5 Student Practice
assignments are excellent resources to help students to develop these skills. Found on the AP Classroom Unit 5 Course
Guide and available to students without teacher assignment, Unit 5 Student Practice provides students with step-by-step tips
and video explanations to guide their work on reasoning and justification involving differentiation.
• To develop emerging understanding, students can work through the Level 1 assignment, which includes instruction
and practice on finding and reasoning about critical points, intervals on which a function is increasing or decreasing,
relative extrema, and intervals on which the graph of a function is concave up or down, along with writing
justifications using the Mean Value Theorem.
• Grounded with these foundational understandings and skills, a student progresses to the Level 2 assignment, which
applies calculus concepts in context and includes justification for an absolute (or global) maximum. This Level 2
assignment would have been very helpful to a student preparing for the AP Exam in 2025.
• The Level 3 assignment is appropriate for students as they pull many concepts together to develop a complete and
integrated understanding of the differentiation topics in the course.
Similarly, Unit 8 Student Practice: Level 1 provides excellent scaffolded preparation for other parts of this question.