© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Part D
• Many responses identified x = 0 and x = 6 either in a
table or a list but never justified why those were
candidates.
• Most responses that mentioned “critical values” or
“critical points” did not identify that these were values
or points for g. Some responses attempted to present a
geometric argument based on areas, but were unable to
clearly articulate how these areas represented values for
g.
• Many responses presented incomplete candidates tests,
either leaving out consideration of x = 6 or x = 12. If
one of these was left out of the table, the response
needed to present a clear argument as to why they
cannot be locations of the absolute minimum, which
most responses in this situation failed to do.
• Many responses presented only a local argument.
• For responses that did not earn P9, the most common
error was giving the location of the absolute minimum
for f (which was x = −3) rather than the location of the
absolute minimum for g.
• Most responses that correctly identified x = 0 provided
some support for this statement and were able to earn
P9.
• Some responses attempted to identify an absolute
maximum instead of minimum.
• g′(x) = f (x) = 0 when x = 0 and x = 6 .
• x = 0 and x = 6 are critical points of g.
• Absolute minima occur where g x ′( ) = 0 and is
changing from negative to positive values, that is at
x = 0 , or at endpoints of the interval.
x g x ( )
−6 0
0
9π −
2
12 9
• Alternate justification and answer that provide a global
argument: Because g x ′( ) ≤ 0 for −6 0 ≤ x < and
g x ′( ) ≥ 0 for 0 < ≤ x 12, the absolute minimum of g
occurs at x = 0 .
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve student performance on the exam?
• Remind students that in graphical interpretation problems, their reasoning (in general) must be tied to the given
graph.
• Some students continue to provide vague or ambiguous reasoning (e.g., “the graph” or “the function” or “the
slope”), which in most cases will not earn the point. Provide many opportunities in the classroom to reinforce the
importance of using precise language to explain and justify work.