© 2025 College Board. 

Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 

Based on your experience at the AP® Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer 
teachers to help them improve student performance on the exam? 

• 
Teach students to pay attention to using appropriate notation for the derivative. Provide students with feedback so 
that they know when they’re using notation inappropriately and can develop greater proficiency with that skill. 

• 
Provide extra practice for students who are prone to drop the “ = 0 ” part of an equation when differentiating a 
constant on one side of the equation or solving algebraically. 

• 
Ensure that students understand that a vertical line has a slope that is undefined. If a derivative is given as a fraction, 
the slope will be undefined when the denominator equals zero (and the numerator does not). 

• 
Practice algebra skills like factoring quadratics with a leading coefficient other than 1. If a student is going to use a 
strategy such as the “slide and divide” method, which creates a quadratic that is temporarily not equivalent to the 
original quadratic, make sure they understand why it works and its limitations. 

• 
Continue practicing the product rule when completing implicit differentiation. 

• 
Emphasize distinctions between derivatives taken with respect to x and those taken with respect to t. 

• 
Remind students that they do not need to simplify numerical expressions for full credit on the AP Exam. Even 
though the AP Exam does not require simplification, practicing arithmetic and algebraic skills needed for 
simplification is still important. Simplification of numerical values can make questions easier to solve and 
understand. 

What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content 
and skill(s) required on this question? 

Every AP Calculus topic in AP Classroom has AP Videos and topic questions. For formative assessment and practice, assign 
the 12 topic questions that go along with Topic 5.12: Exploring Behaviors of Implicit Relations. Students appreciate the 
opportunity to practice and get quick feedback, complete with rationales for why the right answer is right and what 
misconceptions might have led to incorrect options. Teachers value the insights they can gain into their students’ areas of 
strength and areas where they might need additional instruction and practice. 

 
 
