© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve student performance on the exam?
This question required students to apply a variety of calculus topics: implicit differentiation (Topic 3.2), calculating higher-
order derivatives (Topic 3.6), representing a function at a point as a Taylor polynomial (Topic 10.11), using the Lagrange
error bound (Topic 10.12), and approximating solutions to an initial value problem using Euler’s method (Topic 7.5).
• Continue to practice implicit differentiation as the year progresses. As students’ proficiency advances, they will be
more comfortable working with second-order derivatives and using Leibniz notation for second derivatives. With
yearlong practice, students will be less likely to make common errors, such as the sign error that often occurs with a
subtracted product.
• Help students to develop understanding of error bounds by asking them to compare and contrast formulas for the
alternating series error bound (Topic 10.10) and the Lagrange error bound (Topic 10.12).
• Focus on clear communication all year, helping students to organize their steps and labels in Euler’s method, for
example, or to choose the most meaningful, correct way to communicate about an error bound.
• Emphasize that students do not have to simplify answers. This simplification often leads to mistakes and may result
in not earning a point.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content
and skill(s) required on this question?
The AP Calculus AB and BC Course and Exam Description (CED) includes a section on Instructional Approaches that can
be used or adapted as part of instructional planning. For example, to develop application and communication skills across the
curriculum, design error analysis activities using information found on page 206 of the CED.
• At the beginning of the second day on Topic 3.2: Implicit Differentiation, provide students with solutions to various
implicit differentiation problems containing common errors, such as the sign error with a subtracted product, and ask
them to troubleshoot. As students’ skills advance over time, this activity can evolve into peer feedback and
ultimately troubleshooting their own work on the exam.
• Calculating higher-order derivatives (Topic 3.6) can be suitable for students with emerging, proficient, or advanced
skills. Error analysis activities can help students to engage with slightly higher levels of questions than they might be
able to do on their own at that time. For example, a student who might not be quite ready to evaluate a second
derivative at a point in an implicit relation might be able to develop understanding of the prerequisite concepts and
skills in an error analysis activity.
• Error analysis activities with Euler’s method can be used to introduce students to organizational strategies that they
might want to adopt and help them to understand everything that is necessary for a complete and correct application
of the method.
• Finally, an error analysis activity with incorrect statements about error bounds and the task of offering corrections
for the errors will help students to understand why some of the rather complicated expressions we often see in these
topics are incorrect and how to make them right.