© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Part C required students to write and evaluate a limit expression describing the end behavior of the rate of change in the
number of acres affected by the species. P5 was earned for the limit expressed symbolically, and P6 was earned for the
correct answer of 0.
In part D students were given a new function A and asked to find the time on the interval 4 ≤ ≤ t 36 when A attains its
maximum value. This required students to set the derivative of A equal to zero and then use the graphing calculator to solve
for the critical point. P7 was earned for considering where A t ′( ) = 0. P8 was earned by providing a global argument
justifying the correct conclusion. P9 was earned by providing the time when the maximum number of acres was affected,
along with supporting work. P9 could be earned without having earned P8.
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skill(s) required on this question?
Part A: Responses earned P1 by presenting an average value expression; although some presented an incorrect integral
expression involving the function C′( ) t . Many responses earned P2 by using their calculator to evaluate the correct integral
and divide that value by 4.
Part B: Most responses earned P3 for presenting the average rate of change expression or the value for that expression.
Somewhat fewer responses earned P4 for presenting the equation C t ′( ) = 1.282008 and solving that equation for t.
Part C: Most responses earned P5 for representing the verbal description involving a limit in symbolic form. P6 was not
earned for the answer to an incorrect limit expression. Of those who wrote the correct limit expression, however, most earned
P6 with the correct value of 0.
Part D: Some responses earned P7 by presenting A t ′( ) = 0 or C t ′( ) 0.1ln(t) = 0 or by saying that the function − A t ′( )
changed signs at the critical point. P8 was earned for a correct justification to support the conclusion that the global
maximum occurs at t = 11.4417 , with many attempting to use the candidates test. However, the number of responses
earning P8 was low, either because of errors in an attempt at a candidates test or because of stopping short of a global
argument using other approaches. P9 was earned by making the correct conclusion about the time when the largest value
of A was attained, provided supporting work was also given.
What common student misconceptions or gaps in knowledge were seen in the responses to this
question?
Part A: The two most common misconceptions were using C t ′( ) instead of C(t) as the integrand and finding average rate
of change instead of average value.
Part B: The most common error was presenting the equation
C C (4 0 ) − ( )
C t ′( ) =
4 0 −
but not understanding how to solve that
equation.
Part C: The most common misconception was setting up the limit so that it approached 0 instead of infinity.
Part D: The most common error was in P8 for justification. Many responses evaluated A(4), A(11.442), or A(36)
incorrectly.