© 2025 College Board. 

Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 

Part D presented a new function describing a teacher reading over the time interval 0 ≤
≤
t
10 . Based on that model, 
students were asked how many words were read over that time interval and to show the work leading to their answer. P7 was 
earned for a correct integrand, P8 for the correct antiderivative, and P9 for the numerical answer, provided P8 had been 
earned. 

How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the 
responses integrate the skill(s) required on this question? 

Part A: Most responses were able to earn P1 by finding the average rate of change of R over the time interval 0
2
≤
≤
t
 and 
showing the supporting work of a difference quotient. Most responses that simplified the difference quotient did so correctly 
to get an approximation of 5. Although many responses did not provide units of measure at all, most of those that did gave 
correct units of measure and earned P2. 

Part B: Some responses earned P3 by stating that R is differentiable and therefore continuous. Some earned P4 by answering 
“yes” in some way, because R is continuous and 155 is between either R(0) , R(2), or R(8) and R(10) . Of the 9 points in 

this question, P3 and P4 were earned by the smallest proportion of responses. 

Part C: Many responses were able to earn P5 by providing an expression for the form of the trapezoidal sum, although there 
were responses that used an incorrect formula for the area of a trapezoid. Most responses were then able to go on and provide 
a correct answer to earn P6. 

Part D: Most responses were able to earn P7 by providing ∫

10W(t) dt
0
. Most responses that earned P7 were also able to earn 

P8 with a correct antiderivative. Nearly all responses that earned P8 also earned P9 for the correct numerical answer. 

What common student misconceptions or gaps in knowledge were seen in the responses to this 
question? 

Part A: Some responses used the average rate of change in a tangent line approximation and did not earn P1. However, these 
responses were eligible for P2. Other than responses that provided no answer at all for units, the main difficulty was 
responses that provided units for R (t ) instead of R′( )t .  

Part B: Some responses simply stated that R was continuous without justification and did not earn P3. The most common 
error in earning P4 was not addressing the continuity of R. 

Part C: A few responses wrote a sum of three terms but did not provide sufficient correct work to earn P5. Responses that 
had only one error in the sum earned P5 but were not eligible for P6. 

Part D: Some responses did not present an integral expression or an antiderivative of W(t) . A few responses attempted to 

evaluate W(10) as the amount read at the end of the 10-minute interval. 

 
 
