© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Part B: Most responses earned P6 by correctly finding the first three nonzero terms of the Taylor series for f ′ about x = 4.
As noted in the next section, the most common reason for not earning P6 was incorrect simplification of the fractional
coefficient of the third term. About half of responses earned P7 with the correct general term of the series.
Part C: A response such as
x − 4
(
3
x − 4
1−
3 )
, which correctly applies understanding of the behavior of a geometric series, was
sufficient to earn P8. Even so, slightly less than a third of responses earned this point.
Part D: Slightly more than a third of responses earned P9 by answering “no” and reasoning that x = 8 is outside the interval
of convergence.
What common student misconceptions or gaps in knowledge were seen in the responses to this
question?
Part A: Arithmetic and algebra errors were the most common reasons for not earning P3. A common error resulting in not
earning P5 was attempting to use a comparison test with an alternating series.
Part B: Some responses did not earn P6 because of an arithmetic mistake. For example, responses found the correct
coefficient for the third term to be
4
and then reduced it incorrectly. Some responses did not properly use parentheses in
the initial presentation of the general term but later presented a correct answer.
108
Part C: Some responses incorrectly used 1 as the first term in the geometric series and did not earn P8.
Part D: Some responses never gave a definitive answer, and the statements were presented in a way that made it difficult to
determine the conclusion. These responses did not earn P9.
Common Misconceptions/Knowledge Gaps Responses that Demonstrate Understanding
3
Part A
• Many responses did not present the absolute value of a
ratio, which did not have an impact on scoring for P1 or
P2 and could have been resolved with an interior
interval consistent with an absolute value expression.
• Some responses did not use proper limit notation or
took the limit as x approaches ∞ rather than as n
approaches ∞.
• Some students presented intervals not centered about
x = 4. This was most often the result of algebraic or
arithmetic mistakes. For example,
x − 4
−1 1 < <
3
was
incorrectly simplified to be −1 7 < x < or
11 14
< < x
3
.
•
(x n − 4)n+2
( +1 3 ) n
⋅
(n + 2 3 ) n n + + 1 1
earned P1.
(x − 4)
•
(x n − + 4 1 )( ) x − 4
lim =
n→∞ 3 2 (n + ) 3
earned P2.
•
x − 4
< 1 when − < 3 x x − 4 3 < ⇒ 1 < < 7
earned P3.
3