© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skill(s) required on this question?
Part A: P1 was earned by most students for considering x ′ H ( ) t in any of the following forms: x ′ H ( ) t , x ′ H (1), x t ′( ), x′(1),
( )
2
2 4 t e − t t −4
, or ( ) 12
2 1 ⋅ − 4 e −4⋅1
. Most responses that earned P1 went on to earn P2 with the correct answer of 2e−3
− .
Part B: Many responses earned P3 because a response only had to consider the sign of the velocity of one of the two
particles. However, very few responses earned P4 and were therefore ineligible to earn P5.
Part C: Somewhat less than half of responses earned P6 by presenting vJ (2 0 ) > and concluding that the speed of the
particle was therefore increasing.
Part D: Most responses earned P7 with the correct integrand. Fewer responses earned P8 for the antiderivative, owing to
errors in trying to expand the original integrand. When a response earned P8, it was likely to earn P9 for the correct answer
of 27, which included the initial condition.
What common student misconceptions or gaps in knowledge were seen in the responses to this
question?
Part A: Responses that did not earn P1 or P2 usually had difficulty with parentheses or finding the derivative of x ′ H ( ) t .
Part B: The most common reason responses did not earn P4 was incomplete analysis or communication. Many responses
presented a number line analysis that did not clearly communicate the sign of the velocity or the direction of motion for a
particle over the entire interval 0 < t 5 < .
Part C: The most common way to not earn P6 was to find an incorrect value for vJ (2) or to make an incorrect attempt to
find a value or sign for v ′ J (2), even though that information was given in this part.
Part D: While most responses earned P7 with an integrand of vJ (t) or 2 ( )
3
t t2
−1 , difficulties in earning P8 and P9 were
encountered when using u-substitution, expanding the given expression for vJ ( ) t before finding the antiderivative, or
expanding the expression for the antiderivative before substituting limits of integration.
Common Misconceptions/Knowledge Gaps Responses that Demonstrate Understanding
t
t
e
Part A
• Many responses renamed x ′ H ( ) (as H t ′( ), for
example) without defining the new notation.
• Many responses attempted to differentiate eu
as u e ⋅ u
or u ⋅ ⋅ eu
du.
• Many responses did not use parentheses when writing
the product of a binomial and an exponential expression,
as in
2
2 4 t − ⋅ t −4
.
• x t ′ H ( ) ( )
2
= 2 4 t − et t −4