© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve student performance on the exam?
• Although P1 was designed to be an entry point, there were many responses that presented the derivative without
parentheses. This poor notation often led to an incorrect answer, such as 2 4 − e−3
, which did not earn P2.
Encourage students to develop strong communication and notation skills.
• Every point in part B was associated with skillful analysis of the signs of a function over an interval of time and
clear communication of reasoning. Whether presenting an algebraic argument leading to conclusions about the signs
of velocities or organizing findings in a tabular representation, it is imperative that the entire interval given in the
prompt be addressed in such analysis. There were many responses that did not clearly communicate their analysis
for the entire interval 0 < < t 5 and thus were unable to earn P4 and P5. Peer-feedback activities might be helpful
to students as they develop these reasoning and communication skills.
• Help students to understand that they need to provide more than a formulaic answer like “When the signs of velocity
and acceleration are the same, the particle is speeding up.” They need to explicitly apply this idea to a particular
problem. In addition, remind students to avoid unnecessary simplification and calculations that need not be
performed. An evaluation of vJ (2) or v ′ J (2) was not required, for example, but if presented, it needed to be
correct.
• The differential dt (or du) was not required to earn P7, but not including a differential could lead to not earning P7
or P8 because of mishandling of the constant 7. It is always important to stress proper notation in student work.
• For many integrals, the only available integration technique is u-substitution, so help students to recognize
opportunities to use u-substitution, particularly with the inclusion of 2t dt in the integrand, as in part D. If the
integrand in part D had had a much larger exponent on (t2
−1), for example, very few students who chose to
expand the binomial and distribute the 2t would have been successful.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content
and skill(s) required on this question?
To help students to develop proficiency with communicating reasoning about the relationship between the sign of velocity on
an interval of time and the direction of motion over that interval of time, encourage them to watch AP Video 1 for Topic 4.2
and to pay particular attention to what they need to say to communicate reasoning from a sign chart in Example 2 part b.
Note that the presenter answers that the particle is moving to the left on the interval (1, 4) because v(t) < 0 on that interval.