© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question AB2
Task: Area, Volume, Slope of Tangent Lines
Topic: Area/Volume
Max Points: Mean Score:
AB2 P1 1 0.75
AB2 P2 1 0.66
AB2 P3 1 0.44
AB2 P4 1 0.26
AB2 P5 1 0.44
AB2 P6 1 0.35
AB2 P7 1 0.33
AB2 P8 1 0.45
AB2 P9 1 0.35
AB2 Overall Mean Score: 4.06
What were the responses to this question expected to demonstrate?
A graph of two functions f and g and their points of intersection was provided, along with analytical representations for both
functions. The region bounded by f and g was shaded and labeled R.
Part A required students to compute the area of the shaded region. P1 was awarded for the correct form of the integrand,
which was ∫
3
(g(x) − f (x)) dx
0
. Also required to earn P1, the integrand had to be shown in a definite integral. P2 was
earned for the correct answer, with or without supporting work. Although the answer could be found without a calculator,
most students used one.
Part B stated that the region R was the base of a solid where cross sections perpendicular to the x-axis were rectangles with
height x and base in region R. P3 was awarded for a definite integral with an integrand presented as a product of two
nonconstant factors with one of the factors equal to x, g − f , or f − g . P4 was earned for the correct answer.
Part C required students to write, but not evaluate, an integral expression for the volume of the solid generated when the
region R was rotated about the horizontal line y = −2. The expected response for P5 was to present the form of an integrand
that consisted of the outer radius squared minus the inner radius squared. A response that earned P5 often did not earn P6 for
the correct integrand due to parentheses, arithmetic, or algebra errors. The limits of integration, constant π , and the
differential dx were assessed in P7, provided P5 had been earned.
Part D provided the derivative of g x ( ) as g x ′( )= 1+ π cos( ) x π and asked students to find the value of x for which the line
tangent to the graph of f was parallel to the line tangent to the graph of g. To earn P8, a response had to show f ′ ′ (x) = g x ( ).
P9 was earned by a correct answer, with or without supporting work.
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skill(s) required on this question?
Part A: Responses that earned P1 with a definite integral and correct integrand also tended to earn P2 for the correct answer.
Part B: Earning P3 and P4 in this part proved challenging. There were errors involving parentheses as well as indefinite
integrals. Students who earned P3 and P4 usually did so with a minimal number of steps. The more a response tried to
simplify the problem, the more likely there would be an error.