© 2025 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve student performance on the exam?
• In part A some responses did not recognize that the average rate of change of R is the approximation of R′(1). These
responses used the average rate of change found in part A and applied this value to a tangent line approximation for
R(1).
o Help students to make connections among derivatives, approximations of a derivative, and the average rate of
change of a given function. Additionally, help to develop math fluency by reinforcing and using proper
vocabulary in the classroom consistently during the year.
o Provide students with ample opportunities to work with contextual problems that involve units of measure. It is
recommended to spend class time specifically aimed at helping students understand how units of measure are
affected when differentiating (and later when integrating) a given function.
• Spend time working with theorems, specifically the existence theorems: the Mean Value Theorem (MVT),
Intermediate Value Theorem (IVT), and Extreme Value Theorem (EVT). Provide students with opportunities to
connect hypotheses and conclusions when attempting to apply theorems. Many students attempted to apply the
conclusion of the IVT without first explicitly checking and/or stating the required conditions.
• In part D many students were unable to connect accumulation to the integral of a given rate function. Students need
instruction and practice that explicitly connects these two concepts, especially in problems involving a real-world
context.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content
and skill(s) required on this question?
In part B of this question, fewer than half of students earned P3 for establishing continuity based on differentiability and a
similar proportion earned P4 for applying the Intermediate Value Theorem. Students need resources to help them develop
proficiency with establishing continuity and applying the Intermediate Value Theorem and other existence theorems.
In Unit 5 on AP Classroom, as part of the “Unit 5 More Resources,” under the “More” tab, there are several lesson plans
with student handouts focused on writing mathematical justifications. Most relevant to part B of this question is the lesson
for Topic 5.2: Establishing Continuity for EVT and IVT. Taken together with the lesson for Topic 5.1: Establishing
Differentiability for MVT, students can learn to develop understanding of which theorem to apply in a particular situation
and the skills they need to write good justifications using existence theorems.