AP®
CALCULUS BC
2019 SCORING COMMENTARY
Question 2
Note: Student samples are quoted verbatim and may contain spelling and grammatical errors.
Overview
In this problem a region S is shown in an accompanying figure, and S is identified as the region enclosed by the
graph of the polar curve r   2
 3  sin   for 0    .
In part (a) students were asked to find the area of S. A response should demonstrate knowledge of the form of the
integral that gives the area of a simple polar region and evaluate
1  2
2  r    d
0
using the numerical integration
capability of a graphing calculator.
In part (b) students were asked for the average distance from the origin to a point on the polar curve r  r for
0    . A response should observe that the distance from the origin to a point on the polar curve is given
simply by r   and then should demonstrate that the average value of r    for 0     is given by dividing
the definite integral of r across the interval by the width of the interval. The resulting integral expression should
be evaluated using the numerical integration capability of a graphing calculator.
In part (c) m denotes the positive slope of a line through the origin that divides the region S into two regions of
equal areas. Students were asked to write an equation involving one or more integrals whose solution gives the value
of m. A response should express the polar angle  formed by the line and the polar axis in terms of m (namely,
  tan1
m ) and use this as an upper limit in an integral that corresponds to polar area within an equation satisfying
the given requirements.
In part (d) it is given that Ak represents the area of the portion of region S that is inside the circle r  kcos,
and students were asked for the value of lim A k  .
k
 A response should observe that any point to the right of the y -
axis will eventually be inside the circle r  kcos for k sufficiently large. Thus lim A k 
k
 is the area of the
portion of S inside the first quadrant, computed as
1

2
2  r   2
d.
0
The resulting integral expression should be
evaluated using the numerical integration capability of a graphing calculator.
For part (a) see LO CHA-5.D/EK CHA-5.D.2, LO LIM-5.A/EK LIM-5.A.3. For part (b) see LO CHA-4.B/EK
CHA-4.B.1, LO LIM-5.A/EK LIM-5.A.3. For part (c) see LO CHA-5.D/EK CHA-5.D.1. For part (d) see LO CHA-
5.D/EK CHA-5.D.2, LO LIM-5.A/EK LIM-5.A.3. This problem incorporates the following Mathematical Practices:
Practice 1: Implementing Mathematical Processes and Practice 4: Communication and Notation.
Sample: 2A
Score: 9
The response earned 9 points: 2 points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), 3 points in part (c), and 2 points in part (d).
In part (a) the response earned the first point for the integral 


2
3  sin2
 d.
0
The factor of
1
2
is not part
of this point. The second point was earned for the boxed answer 3.534. In part (b) the response earned the first
point for the integral 

3  sin2
d
0
in line 3. The denominator   0 is not part of this point. The second
point was earned for the answer 1.580 in line 3. In part (c) the response earned the first and third points for the
© 2019 The College Board.
Visit the College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.