© 2023 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
• Very rarely did responses consider all three critical
points in the interval [ ] 2, 8 , − although there was no
consistency in which values were not considered.
• Many responses did not use the initial condition
( ) 2 1 f = when attempting to evaluate ( ). f x
• Some responses reported only a local minimum and did
not consider the endpoints of the interval.
• ( ) 0 1, 2, f x x x ′ = ⇒ = − = or 6 x =
In part (a) it was determined there cannot be a
maximum or minimum at 6. x = Because ( ) f x ′
changes from positive to negative at 1, x = − there
cannot be a minimum there. We are given that
( ) 2 1. f =
• ( ) ( )
2
2
2 1 3, f f x dx
−
′ − = + = ∫
( ) ( ) ( )
8
2
8 1 1 2 8 2 11 2 f f x dx π π ′ = + = + + − = − ∫
Therefore, the absolute minimum of f in the interval
[ ] 2, 8 − is ( ) 2 1. f =
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve the student performance on the exam?
• Teachers could focus on the reasoning and justification components of graphical analysis questions, which appear
to be the most common difficulty for students with such questions.
• Teachers could have students practice writing descriptions of graphs of derivatives and the corresponding
function graphs and second derivative graphs, always making clear distinctions between references to , , f f ′ and
, f ′′ as well as avoiding the use of “it” and “the function” or “the graph.”
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content
and skill(s) required on this question?
AB4/BC4 is a graphical analysis question and requires special attention to skill 4.A (Use precise mathematical language).
• Lessons and Student Handouts available in many topics on AP Classroom can help students to practice writing
precisely. In this case, parts (a) and (b) both require care in communicating about the increasing/decreasing
behavior of a function or its derivative over an interval rather than at a point. In part (a) it would be imprecise to
say that ( ) 0 f x ′ > “before 6. x = ” In part (b) students need to be careful to discuss the decreasing behavior of
f ′ on two intervals. The Student Handout and Lesson Plan for Topic 5.4, which is linked on Topic 5.4 in AP
Classroom, would be helpful in developing skill 4.A, along with understanding of relevant content.
• Scoring guidelines and Chief Reader Reports for past questions are essential resources. In this question, part (c)
requires confirming that the condition for L’Hospital’s Rule has been satisfied (skill 3.C); that is, that the
expression whose limit is being evaluated is indeterminate. The most common reason for a response attempting to
do this but not earning the point is essentially underdeveloped use of appropriate mathematical symbols and
notation (skill 4.C). In particular, the limit in this part, which is defined, should not be set equal to
0
,
0
which is
undefined. One correct symbolic representation of this confirmation is to separately evaluate the limits of the
numerator and denominator of the given expression, as shown in the model solution in the scoring guidelines,
found on the AP Calculus AB or BC exam page on AP Central. Past examples of similar questions are useful
resources for modeling appropriate use of mathematical symbols and student practice (e.g., 2021 AB4/BC4
part (c) Scoring Guidelines and Chief Reader Report).
• Another useful resource for developing skill 4.C is the instructional strategy “Error Analysis,” described on
page 206 of the Course and Exam Description.
• AP Daily videos for Topic 5.5 are a useful resource to help students to write complete justifications. High-quality
feedback from teachers on formative assessment items is the ultimate resource for students. The scoring
guidelines provided with topic questions and progress checks are a helpful resource for teachers.