© 2023 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skills required on this question?
Part (a)
• Overall responses to this part showed an understanding of the concept of, and requirements for, determining the
location of relative extrema.
• The most common response to this prompt was the correct conclusion that there was neither a local maximum nor
local minimum at 6 x = because ( ) f x ′ does not change sign at this point.
Part (b)
• In most cases responses indicated an overall understanding of the concept of concavity and the reasoning for
determining whether a function is concave up or concave down on a given interval.
• Most responses correctly listed the intervals ( ) 2, 0 − and ( ) 4, 6 as the intervals where the graph of f is concave
down.
• The most common correct reason given for these intervals was that f ′ is decreasing on these intervals.
• Another common correct reason given was that the slope of f ′ is negative on these intervals.
• Some responses failed to connect the reason provided ( ( ) 0 f x ′′ < ) to the given graph of . f ′
Part (c)
• A majority of the responses demonstrated that students have an understanding of how to apply L’Hospital’s Rule
and of the conditions necessary for using the rule.
• Most responses recognized the need for L’Hospital’s Rule because they successfully evaluated ( )
2
lim 6 3
x
f x x
→
− and
2
2
lim 5 6,
x
x x
→
− + although several of these responses demonstrated “arithmetic with infinity” by writing
( )
2 2
6 3 0
lim .
0 5 6 x
f x x
x x →
−
=
− +
Correct responses either wrote the limits of the numerator and denominator separately or
wrote that the limit was of the indeterminate form
0
.
0
• Most responses presented a limit of a ratio of derivatives, thereby applying L’Hospital’s Rule. Some of these
responses found an incorrect derivative of either ( ) 6 3 f x x − or 2
5 6 x x − + and, therefore, failed to find the
correct limit.
• Most responses that found the limit of the ratio of correct derivatives continued on to find the correct value of the
limit.
Part (d)
• Responses indicated a struggle to correctly apply all of the steps necessary to find an absolute extremum on a closed
interval.
• Many responses did begin with an indication of the need to consider ( ) 0, f x ′ = but quite a few never made this
requirement clear.
• Most responses did consider the endpoints of the interval, but many had trouble correctly evaluating the function f
at these endpoints (and at some of the critical points).
• Many responses considered some, but not all of the three critical points that lay in the interval. Responses may have
felt that they did not need to mention 6 x = because this point was determined to be neither a local maximum nor a
local minimum in part (a), but they should have referenced their work on part (a) in order to justify the answer.