© 2023 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
• Quite a few responses presented poor notation and/or
communication such as ( ) ( ) 0.036, a t v t ′ = = −
( ) [ ] 60 0.036, t
dy
v t
dx = = − or ( ) [ ] 60 60 0.036. t
d
v
dx = = −
• ( ) ( ) ( ) , 60 0.036 a t v t a ′ = = −
( ) [ ] 60 0.036 t
d
v t
dt = = −
• In part (c) some responses confused displacement with
total distance traveled, e.g., ( )
80
20
39.282 v t dt = ∫ or
( ) ( )
56 80
20 56
. v t dt v t dt − ∫ ∫
• A few responses presented an unreasonable answer, e.g.,
( ) ( )
20 80
0 0
distance 23.384. v t dt v t dt = − = − ∫ ∫
• ( )
80
20
Distance 23.384 v t dt = = ∫
• In part (d), as in part (c), some responses confused
displacement with total distance traveled, e.g.,
( )
90
0
37.679 v t dt = ∫ or ( )
90
0
37.679. v t dt = ∫
• ( )
90
0
Total distance 62.164 v t dt = = ∫
Based on your experience at the AP®
Reading with student responses, what advice would you offer
teachers to help them improve the student performance on the exam?
• Teachers could provide students with multiple opportunities to connect the concepts of displacement, total distance
traveled and position—pointing out the similarities between these concepts and how various definite integrals
involving velocity and speed correspond to these values.
• In addition, teachers could help students see the connection between a definite integral that measures net change
(without context) and the definite integral for displacement in the context of particle motion. Similarly, students
should see the connection between a definite integral representing the total accumulation (without context) and the
definite integral that measures total distance traveled in the context of particle motion.
• Proper notation is critical for success as it reinforces the meaning of the concepts in the course and can support
student understanding in calculus. Teachers can help students develop a command of proper notation by consistently
modeling proper notation and implementing a variety of notational approaches throughout the course. Additionally,
teachers can hold students accountable for their own notation consistently throughout the course.
• Teachers could frequently reinforce the importance and necessity of supporting work in mathematics as a method of
communication. Teachers could present students with exemplary responses that display clear and concise work as
models for free-response questions throughout the year to help students develop their communication and reasoning
skills.
• On calculator-active questions, many students are unaware that they are expected to communicate how they are
utilizing their graphing calculator by showing the necessary setup prior to presenting numerical answers. This setup
requires proper notation, and responses that lack notation or include incorrect notation are rarely eligible to earn all
possible points. Teachers could require similar setups on all submitted work in their classrooms to ensure that this
becomes reflexive for students.
• Students need guidance and support as they develop an understanding of what qualifies as proper mathematical
reasoning. Teachers can reinforce these ideas by requiring students to use the concepts of calculus to explain their
answers and within their reasoning. Providing students frequent opportunities to discuss calculus, explain answers,
and provide mathematical reasoning throughout the year is an essential step to promote and strengthen these skills.