© 2023 College Board. 
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 

What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content 
and skill(s) required on this question? 

• 
A favorite resource for teaching and learning about parametric particle motion is Vectors: A Curriculum Module 
for AP® Calculus BC. Through a series of six days of lessons, author Nancy Stephenson shares resources and 
practice problems that take students through required prerequisite knowledge about parametric equations, the 
calculus of parametric equations, a review of rectilinear motion (AP Calculus AB content from Units 4 and 8), 
and particle motion along a curve, including vectors (Unit 9). Having mastered the material in this resource, a 
student would be fully prepared to answer BC2: Find an acceleration vector (part (a)), work with speed (part (b)), 
find the slope of a line tangent to the path and the x-coordinate of the position of the particle (part (c)), and find 
the total distance traveled by the particle over an interval (part (d)). 

• 
The resource AP Calculus: Use of Graphing Calculators can help to develop students’ calculator skills. 

o Students should always have their calculators in radian mode when taking an AP Calculus exam or 

working in calculus class. Establishing this habit early and practicing all year can help students to earn all 
of the points merited by their mastery of calculus. 

o As mentioned in the classroom resource Commentary on the Instructions for the Free-Response Section 

of the AP® Calculus Exams, students should also be careful to show supporting work. In particular, if a 
calculator is used to determine a value, a response must show the setup entered into the calculator and use 
standard mathematical notation. For example, in part (a) students were prompted to “show the setup for 
your calculations” and were expected to do so to earn full credit. 

o Students should be careful to apply appropriate rounding procedures (skill 4.E). This includes rounding 

(or truncating) final answers to at least three places after the decimal and storing as many places as 
possible for intermediate values. On page 220 of the Course and Exam Description, teachers can find key 
questions and instructional strategies to help students to master this skill. 

 
 
