© 2023 College Board. 
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 

( )
135

_{60} f t dt






∫
 gives the net change of [gallons of gasoline pumped over the interval 60
135
t
≤
≤
 seconds]. 

Note that the response starts from the form of the EK and includes specific language included in the question. 
This approach utilizes variations of two instructional strategies found in the Course and Exam Description (CED): 
Model Questions (page 208) and Sentence Starters (page 212). 

• 
Students should practice all year communicating reasoning, showing work, and presenting setups for work 
performed in a calculator: 

o Part (a) of this question requires that students show sufficient work to demonstrate the use of a right 

Riemann sum, as described in the scoring notes for the second point. 

o Part (b) requires that students communicate the Mean Value Theorem (MVT) connection between 
( )
f
c
′
 
and the average rate of change and that they demonstrate that the MVT applies by reasoning that because 

f is differentiable, f must also be continuous (a condition for application of the MVT—see skill 3.C). 

o Part (c) requires that students present the average value setup (which might be done in one or more steps) 

and the correct answer rounded appropriately (see skill 4.E). Using precise mathematical language (skill 
4.A) is critical, especially if a student attempts to split this work by evaluating the definite integral and 
then dividing by 150. 

o Part (d) also requires attention to precise mathematical language (see skill 4.A) if a student interprets the 

sign of 
(
)
140 .
g′
 

One resource to support the development of communication skills is the formative topic questions and progress 
checks provided with each topic or unit on AP Classroom, especially the free-response questions. Giving students 
regular feedback on their work using the scoring guidelines provided with each formative assessment free-response 
question is an excellent way to help students to develop these skills over time. 

 
 
