© 2023 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
• Teachers could ensure that students have opportunities to work with free-response questions that require
justifications and explanations of their reasoning.
• Teachers could incorporate the use of the notation
dy
dx
or
dy
dt
rather than , y′ particularly in situations involving
related rates or implicit differentiation.
• Teachers could provide practice with problems involving implicit differentiation that go beyond merely finding
.
dy
dx
It would be helpful to provide graphs of implicitly defined functions so that students could visualize
situations like the one in this problem, where there are values of x and y such that 0,
dy
dx
= but ( ) , x y does not
lie on the curve.
What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content
and skill(s) required on this question?
• Practicing implicit differentiation (Topic 3.2) offers opportunities for review and reinforcement of earlier topics.
To differentiate the term 6 , xy for example, one must apply the product rule (Topic 2.8), with the implicit
differentiation of y as
dy
dx
a step along the way. If formative assessment (Topic Questions) suggests that
particular students have gaps on understanding of earlier topics, AP Daily videos are a helpful resource for
review. To master implicit differentiation requires skillful selection of differentiation procedures (Topic 3.5).
Categorizing Functions for Derivative Rules is a resource provided with Topic 3.5 on AP Classroom.
• Topic 5.12 (Exploring Behaviors of Implicit Relations) offers an opportunity to help students pull together what
they have learned in AP Calculus, as well as key prerequisite knowledge and skills. Because free-response
questions on the AP Calculus exams are designed to assess content from across the course framework, these
questions are often essential resources for uncovering opportunities for “just-in-time” review. For example, Free-
Response Question AB5 on the 2021 AP Calculus exam would be a good jumping off point for uncovering the
need for:
o Review of differentiation techniques in implicit differentiation (part (a));
o Review of prerequisite knowledge about horizontal (and, by extension, vertical) tangent lines in part (c);
o Review of justification of relative extrema in part (d).
• For most effective use of these resources in class instruction, consider how the specific content of the question on a
particular exam might be expanded beyond the one question. For example, focusing only on horizontal tangent lines
in part (b) would represent a lost opportunity to review vertical tangent lines as well.
• Finally, this question highlights the importance of using precise mathematical language (skill 4.A). Key questions,
sample activities, and sample instructional strategies to develop this skill are provided on page 219 of the Course and
Exam Description.