© 2023 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question AB4/BC4
Topic: Graphical Analysis with L Hospital
Max Score: 9
Mean Score: AB4 2.70
Mean Score: BC4 4.03
What were the responses to this question expected to demonstrate?
In this problem the graph of , f ′ which consists of a semicircle and two line segments on the interval 2 8, x − ≤ ≤ is
provided. It is given that f is defined on the closed interval [ ] 2, 8 , − and that ( ) 2 1. f =
In part (a) students were asked to reason whether f has a relative minimum, relative maximum, or neither at 6. x = A
correct response will use the given graph to reason that f ′ does not change signs at 6, x = although ( ) 6 0. f ′ = Therefore
f has neither a relative maximum nor a relative minimum at this point.
In part (b) students were asked to find all open intervals where f is concave down. A correct response will reason that a
function is concave down when its first derivative is decreasing, and therefore f is concave down on the intervals ( ) 2, 0 −
and ( ) 4, 6 .
In part (c) students were asked to find
( )
2 2
6 3
lim
5 6 x
f x x
x x →
−
− +
or to show that this limit does not exist (and to justify their answer).
A correct response will report that as x approaches 2, both the numerator and denominator of this ratio approach 0, and so
L’Hospital’s Rule applies. Using L’Hospital’s Rule, the limit is shown to be 3.
In part (d) students were asked to find the absolute minimum value of f on the closed interval [ ] 2, 8 − with a justification
for their answer. A correct response will indicate the possible candidates for the location of the absolute minimum are the
interval endpoints and the critical points 1, 2, x x = − =and 6. x = A response could then reference work from part (a) to
eliminate 6 x = as the location of a relative (or absolute) minimum, and could use the fact that the graph of f ′ changes
from positive to negative at 1 x = − in order to argue that a relative maximum occurs at 1. x = − In addition, the given graph
of f ′ indicates that ( ) 0 f x ′ ≥ for 2, x > so the endpoint 8 x = cannot be the location of the absolute minimum value. The
value of ( ) 2 f is given in the stem of the problem, and using geometry, ( ) ( )
2
2
2 1 3. f f x dx
−
′ − = + = ∫ Therefore, the
absolute minimum value of f on this closed interval is ( ) 2 1. f = (Alternatively, a response could evaluate the function f
at each of these five points and conclude that the absolute minimum is ( ) 2 1. f = )