© 2023 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question AB2
Topic: Particle Motion—Acceleration-Displacement-Distance
Max Score: 9
Mean Score: 4.62
What were the responses to this question expected to demonstrate?
In this problem students were told that Stephen is swimming back and forth along a straight path in a 50-meter pool for
90 seconds with a velocity modeled by the function ( ) ( ) 0.02
2.38 sin .
56
t
v t e t
π −
= Here t is measured in seconds and ( ) v t
is measured in meters per second.
In part (a) students were asked to find all times t in the interval 0 90 t < < at which Stephen changes direction. A correct
response will indicate understanding that Stephen changes direction when his velocity changes sign. Based on the model for
velocity, it is clear that ( ) 56 0, v = and a calculator could be used to confirm that ( ) v t does change sign at this time.
In part (b) students were asked to find Stephen’s acceleration at time 60 t = seconds and to indicate units of measure. Then
students were asked to provide a reason for whether Stephen was speeding up or slowing down at this time. A correct
response will communicate that Stephen’s acceleration is the derivative of his velocity and will use a calculator to find
( ) ( ) 60 60 0.036 a v′ = = − meter per second per second. Then the response will evaluate the given velocity function at
60 t = in order to determine that ( ) 60 v is also negative and conclude that, because the velocity and acceleration have the
same sign at 60, t = Stephen must be speeding up.
In part (c) students were asked to find the distance between Stephen’s position at time 20 t = seconds and his position at
time 80 t = seconds. A correct response will show the calculator setup ( )
80
20
, v t dt ∫ with a numerical answer of 23.384
meters.
In part (d) students were asked to find the total distance Stephen swims over the time interval from 0 t = to 90 t = seconds.
A correct response will provide the setup ( )
90
0
v t dt ∫ and use a calculator to find the total distance is 62.164 meters.
How well did the responses address the course content related to this question? How well did the
responses integrate the skills required on this question?
Part (a)
• A majority of the responses considered the sign of Stephen’s velocity in an attempt to determine when Stephen’s
direction changed, and most of these responses correctly reported time 56. t =
• Some responses failed to reason that Stephen changed direction because his velocity changed signs, instead stating
only that ( ) 56 0. v =
• Some responses correctly reasoned that Stephen changed direction at time 56 t = because ( ) 56 0 v = and
( ) ( ) 56 56 0, a v′ = ≠ which is equivalent to the Second Derivative Test.