© 2023 College Board. 
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 

a solution curve that passes through (
)
0, 5 must have a horizontal asymptote. Teachers could provide students 
with practice sketching solution curves of various types of solutions (transient, steady-state, periodic, unbounded). 

• 
Teachers could begin the exploration of each differential equation by establishing the role of each variable in the 
equation. Then remind students that the derivative tells us the slope of a differentiable curve and that the 
derivative may depend on the independent variable, the dependent variable, or both. 

• 
Teachers could provide practice, practice, practice finding and using the equation of a tangent line. 

• 
Teachers could never provide enough practice with manipulating logarithmic or exponential equations or 
equations involving absolute values. 

• 
Teachers could provide several options (correct and incorrect) of “separated” separable differential equations and 
have students practice classifying the options as “correctly separated,” “poorly separated,” or “not separated.” 

What resources would you recommend to teachers to better prepare their students for the content 
and skill(s) required on this question? 

Both AB and BC students found this to be the most challenging question on their exams. In each part of the question, 
students missed opportunities to earn points: 

• 
In part (a) students seemed to be entering the graphing of the solution curve with a baseline understanding of the 
task, but some did not use appropriate graphing techniques (skill 4.D). For example, some were not careful to 
make sure that their solution curve passed through the point (
)
0, 5 or that the curve approached the horizontal 
segments at 
40
M =
 while staying below the implied line at 
40.
M =
 AP Daily videos for Topic 7.3 clearly 
describe and model good technique. Instructional strategies to practice and develop appropriate graphing 
techniques can be found on page 220 of the Course and Exam Description (CED). In addition to these, the 
instructional strategy “Error Analysis” (page 206 of the CED) would be a useful resource to help students develop 
strong graphing techniques. 

• 
In part (b) a tangent line approximation should be quite straightforward. However, students needed to recall that 
they can use the given differential equation to find the slope of the tangent line. Past exam questions are a helpful 
resource found in the Question Bank on AP Classroom for helping to build the connection between a contextual 
rate and the slope of a line. In particular, part (a) of AB4/BC4 on the 2017 exams is very similar to this question. 
Students had trouble with this then, as well, illustrating the need for continued review of the connections between 
past learning (slope of tangent line) and new learning (rate of change in temperature). 

• 
In part (c) students needed to write an expression for 

2

2
d M

dt

 and to use that information to reason that the tangent 

line approximation found in part (b) is an overestimate. Note that this is very similar to part (b) of AB4/BC4 on 
the 2017 exams. 

• 
Finally, part (d) required students to solve a separable differential equation (Topics 7.6 and 7.7). Students 
typically perform well on this task, but in this case, they needed to be careful in handling the signs on the left-
hand side of the equation. In addition to resources in the Course and Exam Description and AP Classroom for 
Topics 7.6 and 7.7, mastery of integration using substitution (Topic 6.9) was necessary to earn all points. 

 
 
