Source: https://help.desmos.com/hc/en-us/articles/4405296853517-Graph-Settings
Title: Graph Settings – Desmos Help Center
Captured: 2026-09-29 by browser fetch of the article element

Graph Settings

 Updated September 10, 2026 17:58

 In the
 Graphing Calculator,
 you can customize your graph settings for more control over what
 you
 can see and do. Click
 
 Graph Settings
 
 to access these options.
 
Watch the video for an introduction to graph settings, and read on to learn more.

 Change the Viewport

You can change the viewport to better fit your graph.
In your browser, you can click Zoom In or Zoom Out on the coordinate plane. Or, press Alt+Plus Sign (+) (Windows) or Ctrl+Plus Sign (+) (Mac) to zoom in and Alt+Minus Sign (-) (Windows) or Ctrl+Minus Sign (-) (Mac) to zoom out.
You can also click Default Viewport to return to the default viewport, which is pre-defined depending on the size of your screen.

You can also adjust the domain and range of the viewport manually. Click Graph Settings and then adjust your axes.

If you are using a table, you can click Zoom Fit to adjust your viewport to fit your data.

 Lock the Viewport
To disable zooming and panning, click Graph Settings. Then click More Options and check Lock Viewport.

 Show and Hide Grids

The calculator automatically displays the Cartesian grid. To turn it off, click Graph Settings and then uncheck Grid.
You can toggle between Cartesian and Polar for more control over how the grid appears. You can also show or hide axis numbers, and show or hide minor gridlines.

 Axes and Labels
From the same Graph Settings menu, you can toggle each axis on or off to control whether it displays. You can also add a label for each axis.

 Pi Labels
To add pi labels to your \(x\)- and \(y\)-axes, click Graph Settings. Then, click Step and enter pi as the step to label that axis with multiples of \(π\).

 Complex Mode

In the Graphing Calculator and 3D Graphing Calculator, complex mode allows you to work with the imaginary number \(i\). You’ll also have access to the functions real, imag, conj, arg, and || (for modulus).
Click Graph Settings and then toggle on Complex Mode.

 Radians and Degrees
To switch to between degrees and radians, click Graph Settings and then toggle between Radians and Degrees.

 Accessibility Settings

The Graphing Calculator includes settings that enlarge the display, turn on reverse contrast, and enable use with Braille.
Learn more about these settings in our Introduction to Accessibility Features article.

 Learn More
Explore Graph Settings Example Graph
Complex Numbers
Set Up a Free Desmos Account
Graphing Calculator User Guide
Keyboard Shortcuts
Please write in with any questions or feedback to support@desmos.com.

 Home.png
 (10 KB)

 668 x 445 Frame (2).png
 (40 KB)

 Graph settings menu.png
 (70 KB)

 table zoom fit.png
 (50 KB)

 Show Grid.png
 (100 KB)

 off & Labels.png
 (60 KB)

 pi labels.gif
 (3 MB)

 Enlarge Graph Display.png
 (80 KB)

 Display.png
 (70 KB)

 Degree.png
 (70 KB)

 Graph settings menu (small).png
 (40 KB)

 Lock Viewport.png
 (80 KB)

 Show-Hide-Grid-Settings.png
 (200 KB)

 Adjust-Axes-Settings.png
 (100 KB)

 Lock-Viewport-Settings.png
 (100 KB)

 Axes-Labels-Settings.png
 (100 KB)

 Enlarge-Display-Graph-Example-Settings.png
 (90 KB)

 Pinch-Window-Settings.png
 (200 KB)

 Zoom-Fit-Settings.png
 (30 KB)

 Radian-Degrees-Settings.png
 (100 KB)

 Enlarge-Display-Settings.png
 (100 KB)

 Pi-Labels-Settings.gif
 (80 KB)

 Settings_Complex_mode_toggle_on.png
 (50 KB)

 Settings_Complex_mode Toggle.png
 (60 KB)

 Settings_functions menu.png
 (40 KB)
