AP® Calculus BC 2023 Scoring Commentary 

© 2023 College Board.  
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 

Question 5 (continued) 

In part (c) the response earned the first point with the correct identification of u and dv in line 1 to the right. The 
response earned the second point with the correct application of integration by parts in line 2. The response would 
have earned the third point with the answer of 3 2
10
⋅
−
 in line 3. In this case, the response correctly simplifies to 
the answer of 4
− in line 3 and earned the third point. 

Sample: 5B 
Score: 5 

The response earned 5 points: 3 points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), and no points in part (c). 

In part (a) the response earned the first point with the difference of definite integrals in line 1. The response earned 
the second point with the correct antiderivative of ( )
g x in line 2. The response would have earned the third point 
with the expression in line 3. In this case, the response correctly simplifies and earned the third point with the boxed 
answer in line 4. 

In part (b) the response earned the first point with the correct use of limit notation in the expression on the left in  
line 1 and the consistent, correct use of the limiting process to the end of the response. The response earned the 
second point with the correct antiderivative of the u -substitution integrand in line 3. The response is not eligible for 
the third point because the response uses incorrect bounds of integration on the u -substitution integral in line 2. 

In part (c) the response did not earn the first point because no expressions for u and dv have been clearly identified. 
The response did not earn the second point because the potential application of integration by parts on line 2 is 
incorrect. The response did not earn the third point because the answer is not correct. 

Sample: 5C 
Score: 2 

The response earned 2 points: 2 points in part (a), no points in part (b), and no points in part (c). 

In part (a) the response earned the first point with the correct definite integral in line 1. The response earned the 
second point with the correct antiderivative of ( )
g x at the end of line 2. The response evaluates the integral of 
( )
g x correctly; however, the simplification at the end of line 4 is not correct. The response did not earn the third 
point because the answer is not correct. 

In part (b) the response did not earn the first point. The response correctly uses limit notation in line 2; however, the 
response omits the limit in line 7 on the right and, thus, has not correctly used the limiting process for the entire 
response. The response did not earn the second point because the antiderivative in line 7 is not correct. The response 
did not earn the third point because the answer is not correct. 

In part (c) the response did not earn the first, second, and third points because the response does not use integration 
by parts and the answer is not correct. 
