AP®
Calculus BC 2022 Scoring Commentary
Question 2 (continued)
In part (c) the response earned the first point by using the expression ln(2 + t2
) as an integrand. Adding 5 to the
associated definite integral earned the second point, and the circled answer of 11.5705 earned the third point.
In part (d) the response earned the first point with the definite integral in the third line and earned the second point
with the correct answer of 12.1362.
Sample: 2B
Score: 5
The response earned 5 points: 1 point in part (a), 1 point in part (b), 3 points in part (c), and no points in part (d).
In part (a) the response earned the point by evaluating the function
ln(2 + t2
)
1 + t2
at t = 4 to produce the correct
answer.
In part (b) the first point was earned with the correct equation for speed and the correct evaluation of this equation
at t = 4 to produce the boxed answer in the second line. The second and third points were not earned because
neither the x- nor the y -component of the acceleration vector is provided.
In part (c) the use of ln(2 + t2
) as an integrand earned the first point. The phrase “at t = 4 → (1, 5)” pointing to
the +5 in the second line earned the second point, and the correct value for the y -coordinate earned the third
point.
In part (d) the incorrect integrand did not earn the first point, and the incorrect boxed answer did not earn the
second point.
Sample: 2C
Score: 2
The response earned 2 points: 1 point in part (a), no points in part (b), 1 point in part (c), and no points in part (d).
In part (a) the response would have earned the first point with the expression
ln(2 +16)
1 +16
in the second line. The
response simplified the expression correctly and earned the first point.
In part (b) the first point was not earned because the response computes the slope of the tangent line instead of the
speed at t = 4. The second and third points were not earned because the response provides neither the x- nor
y -component of the acceleration vector.
In part (c) the response earned the first point with the indefinite integral ∫ln(2+t2
)dt. The second point was not
earned because y(4) = 5 is not used, and the third point was not earned because the correct answer is not given.
In part (d) the response did not earn the first point because the integrand of the definite integral is incorrect, and
the second point was not earned because the answer is incorrect.
© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.