AP®
Calculus AB/BC 2022 Scoring Commentary
Question 3 (continued)
In part (c) the first point was earned on line 1 for g x ′( ) = f ′(x) −1. The second point was earned on lines 1, 2,
and 3 on the right for giving the correct interval (0, 5) with the reason that “ g x ′( ) = f ′(x) −1 is negative in this
interval.”
In part (d) the first point was earned on line 1 for consideration of only x = 5 (and the endpoints) as possible
locations of the absolute minimum. The second point was earned on line 8 for declaring −1.5 as the absolute
minimum. A Candidates Test is carried out correctly, with an incorrect value of f (0) that is greater than
3
−
2
imported from part (a). Such responses are still eligible to earn the second point as long as g(0) is declared to be
that same imported value, and there are no mistakes in reported values of g(5) and g(7 . )
Sample: 3B
Score: 6
The response earned 6 points: 3 points in part (a), no points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and 1 point in part (d).
In part (a) the response earned the first point for ∫
4
f ′( )
0
x on line 3 on the left. Note that the integrals are missing
the differential dx; this oversight is not penalized. The second and third points were earned for the boxed, correct
values of f (0) and f (5 . )
In part (b) the response did not earn the first point, because x = 6 is not given among the answers. The second
point was not earned because the reasoning that “there is a horizontal tangent at the bottom of the semicircle” is
not sufficient. A response must make a specific appeal to f ′ in order for the second point to be earned.
In part (c) the response earned the first point on line 2 for the correct derivative of g′( ) x . The response earned the
second point for the correct boxed interval on line 5, with correct reasoning on lines 3 and 4.
In part (d) the response earned the first point for consideration of a sign change in g′( ) x below the sign chart.
Although the response does have the correct answer of , −
3
2
it uses the local argument that “ g′( ) x goes from
negative to positive at x = 5” without an appeal to the whole interval (0, 7). Therefore, the second point was not
earned. The response appears, perhaps, to address the interval with a sign chart, but the response must explain the
conclusions gathered from the chart in order for the point to be earned.
Sample: 3C
Score: 2
The response earned 2 points: 1 point in part (a), no points in part (b), no points in part (c), and 1 point in part (d).
In part (a) the response earned the first point on line 2 for consideration of
1
2
(the area of the necessary triangular
region) to the right of the second equal sign. The response did not earn the second and third points because the
answers for f (0) and f (5) are both incorrect.
In part (b) the response did not earn either point because answers other than x = 2 or x = 6 are given (in this
case, x = 0 and x = 4), which renders the response ineligible for either point.
© 2022 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.