 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

AP® Calculus AB/BC 2022 Scoring Commentary 

Question 3 

Note: Student samples are quoted verbatim and may contain spelling and grammatical errors. 

Overview 

In this problem the graph of a function f ′, which consists of a semicircle and two line segments on the interval 

0 ≤ x ≤ 7, is provided. It is also given that this is the graph of the derivative of a differentiable function f with 
f ( 4 ) = 3. 

In part (a) students were asked to find f (0 )  and f (5) .  To find f (0 )  a correct response u ses geometry and the 

Fundamental Theorem of Calculus to calculate the signed area of the semicircle, ∫

4 f ′( x) dx = −2
0 
,
π and subtracts 

this value from the initial condition, f ( 4 ) = 3, to obtain a value of 3 + 2π 
 
. To find f (5)  a correct response would 

add the initial condition to the signed area ∫ 

5 
1
f ′(x) dx = 
4
2 , found using geometry, to obtain a value of 7 
2 . 

In part (b) students were asked to find the x -coordinates of all points of inflection on the graph of f for 0 < x < 7  
and to justify their answers. A correct response would use the given graph to determine that the graph of f
x
′( ) 
changes from decreasing to increasing, or vice versa, at the points x = 2 and x = 6. Therefore, these are the 
inflection points of the graph of f . 

In part (c) students were told that g x
( ) = f (x)  − x and are asked to determine on which intervals, if any, the 
function g is decreasing. A correct response would find that g x
′( ) =  f ′( x) −  1  and then use the given graph of f ′  
to determine that when 0 ≤ x ≤ 5, f ′( x) ≤  1 ⇒ g x
′( ) ≤ 0.  Therefore, g is decreasing on the interval 0 ≤ x ≤ 5. 

In part (d) students were asked to find the absolute minimum value of g x
( ) = f (x)  − x on the interval 0 ≤ x ≤ 7. 
A correct response would use the work from part (c) to conclude g x
′(  ) < 0 for 0 < x < 5 and g x
′( ) > 0 for 
5 < x < 7. Thus the absolute minimum of g occurs at x = 5. Using the work from part (a), which found the value 

of f (5) ,  the absolute minimum value of g is 
7
3
g(5 ) = f (5) −
=
5 
 −
=
5
−
 
2
2 . 

Sample: 3A 
Score: 8 

The response earned 8 points: 2 points in part (a), 2 points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and 2 points in part (d). 

In part (a) the first point was earned for the integral expression to the left of the first equal sign. The second point 
was not earned because the value of f (0 )  is reported incorrectly. The third point was earned because the stated 
value of f (5 )  is correct. 

In part (b) the first point was earned for the boxed answer on lines 1 and 2, which declares the “POI” as x = 2  
and x = 6. The second point was earned for the explanation given in the paragraph below the boxed answer. The 
response appeals to the change in sign of f ′′ , which alone would not be sufficient but goes on to declare that 
“ f ′′ is the slope of f ′ ” and indicates correctly that where the graph (of f ′ ) “changes from increasing to 
decreasing, or vice versa is a point of inflection.” 

© 2022 College Board. 
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 
