Source: https://help.desmos.com/hc/en-us/articles/30913914831757-Assessment-Resources-FAQ
Title: Assessment Resources & FAQ – Desmos Help Center
Captured: 2026-09-29 by browser fetch of the article element

Assessment Resources & FAQ

 Updated August 31, 2026 04:22

 Assessment Resources

Welcome! We’ve put together a collection of resources to help you learn more about Desmos on assessments:

In Practice With Testing Calculators, learn how to find and use the right testing calculator for your exam.
In Using Desmos on In-Class Assessments, learn how to incorporate testing calculators into day-to-day exams in the classroom.
In Desmos Professional Development, learn what types of professional learning Desmos Studio offers. .

Jump into these articles, or begin the Desmos Assessment Strategies on this page to get started. If you have more questions, read on into the FAQ.

 Frequently Asked QuestionsDesmos Calculators on Assessments

 What’s the difference between the calculators on my test and the standard calculators on desmos.com?

Testing calculators may exclude various features that aren’t helpful in testing environments. For example, you can’t import graphs, add images, log into your account, save or share links, or link to external resources from a testing calculator.
Visit our Testing page to practice using the version of the calculator you’ll see on test day. Each national exam or state has a corresponding testing PDF that highlights key differences between the testing calculators and standard calculators.

 When and how are the features available on my test decided? 

Test creators, administrators, and state departments of education typically collaborate once a year to decide which calculator features will be enabled or disabled for the next year’s assessment. This process generally happens the summer before the upcoming school year. So, updates to the calculator on desmos.com during the school year don’t usually appear on that year’s tests.
For the most up-to-date version of the calculator you’ll see on your exam, visit our Testing page to find the right practice testing calculator and PDFs that explain how each calculator is configured for the listed school year.

 How can I use Desmos calculators on assessments in my classroom? 

Along with the calculators on our Testing page we offer a Desmos Test Mode app that allows for offline practice and use on day-to-day quizzes and exams in the classroom. The app is available on Apple and Android mobile devices as well as Chromebooks.
Learn more in our article on Using Desmos on In-Class Assessments.

 How can I determine whether my students are all using the same version of the Desmos Test Mode app? 

You can verify the version at any time within the app. Click Help at the bottom of the Help menu to check the version number of the app installed on your device.
We recommend that all students use the most up-to-date version of the app to ensure they all have the same experience. To check the most current version of the app available, find the version history in the app description in the Apple App Store, Google Play Store, or Chrome PWA.

 How do I fix the error my students see when trying to open the Desmos Test Mode App in Kiosk Mode on Chromebooks? 

Part of the v138 Chrome update disabled all Chrome apps by default, which can cause the following error message upon opening the app: “Can’t launch unsupported Chrome app. Notify your administrator about this issue.”
We recommend moving to the new PWA, but if you’d like to re-enable the Chrome app for a limited time, follow these steps:

Sign into your Google Admin console and find the Chrome Apps allowed for kiosk mode setting

Set Configuration to Keep using Chrome apps in kiosk sessions for a limited time.

Learn more in Using Desmos on In-Class Assessments.

 Do Desmos calculators have computer algebra system (CAS) capabilities?

No. Desmos is not considered a computer algebra system (CAS), which is recognized by its ability to solve equations algebraically, simplify expressions, and perform exact arithmetic without rounding or truncating decimals. While Desmos can quickly evaluate expressions, plot, and graph, students must be able to analyze and interpret the outputs.

SAT and AP Exams in Bluebook

 Which Desmos calculator will be available on the SAT?

Both the Graphing Calculator and Scientific Calculator are available on the digital SAT in Bluebook, so test-takers don’t have to choose between one or the other.
You can toggle between each calculator during the exam. However, content in one calculator won’t carry over to content in the other calculator, so double-check that you’ve toggled into the correct calculator before inputting anything.

 Which Desmos calculator will be available on my AP Exam?

Not all AP Exams feature the same Desmos calculator. Some even offer two. 

 Biology: Scientific Calculator 

 Chemistry: Both Scientific and Graphing
 Calculators

 Environmental Science: Scientific Calculator 

 Macroeconomics & Microeconomics:
 Four-Function Calculator 

 Networking: Four-Function Calculator 

 Physics 1 & 2, Physics C: Both Scientific
 and Graphing Calculators

 Precalculus, Calculus AB & BC: Graphing
 Calculator 

 Statistics: Graphing Calculator 

For exams that include both the Scientific and Graphing Calculators, test takers will be able to toggle between them.

 Where can I find the testing calculators and learn about the test format for the SAT and AP Exams? 
 
Just like all other testing calculators, you can find the SAT and AP Exam testing calculators on our Testing page. You can also practice in Bluebook, which you can learn about on the College Board’s website. There, you can find the most up-to-date information on the formats for the SAT and AP Exams as well.

 Are Desmos calculators the only calculators that can be used on the SAT and AP Exams?

No. Desmos is available as an option in Bluebook for all test takers, but both the SAT and AP Exams also permit a variety of handheld calculators that you can use instead of or in addition to Desmos calculators.
View the full list of acceptable calculators for the SAT Suite of Assessments and the AP Exams.

If you have any questions or are looking for something else, please reach out to us at support@desmos.com.

 Regression-Template.gif
 (200 KB)

 Export-Point-to-Expression-List-Assessments.gif
 (100 KB)

 Complex-Mode-Assessments-FAQ.png
 (50 KB)
