AP®
Calculus AB/BC 2023 Scoring Commentary
© 2023 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question 1 (continued)
In part (d) the response earned the first point for the correct value of ( ) 140 . g′ The response earned the second point
with the statement “at 140 t = seconds, the rate of flow of gasoline is changing at a rate of .005. − ”
Sample: 1B
Score: 5
The response earned 5 points: 2 points in part (a), no points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and 1 point in part (d).
In part (a) the response earned the first point with the statement “the time frame (from 60 to 135 seconds) in
which a certain amount of gallons of gasoline are pumped into a gas tank.” The response earned the second point
for the correct form of the Riemann sum with five of the six factors correct. The third point was not earned
because the response contains an error in the Riemann sum.
In part (b) the response did not earn the first point because the expression ( ) ( ) 120 60 0 f f − = is not included.
Because the first point was not earned, the response is not eligible for the second point. In addition, the response
did not earn the second point because the response does not state that f is continuous because f is
differentiable.
In part (c) the response earned the first point because the response includes the average value formula. The
response earned the second point with the correct answer.
In part (d) the response earned the first point with the presence of the correct value of ( ) 140 . g′ The response did not
earn the second point because the response does not interpret the declared value of ( ) 140 g′ correctly (it needs to
discuss a rate of a rate). The words acceleration and velocity should be used to refer to an object in motion.
Sample: 1C
Score: 2
The response earned 2 points: 2 points in part (a), no points in part (b), no points in part (c), and no points in
part (d).
In part (a) the response did not earn the first point. The response earned the second point for the correct form of
the Riemann sum. The response earned the third point for the correct answer.
In part (b) the response did not earn the first point because the response does not include ( ) ( ) 120 60 0. f f − =
Because the first point was not earned, the response is not eligible for the second point. In addition, the response
did not earn the second point because the response does not state that f is continuous because f is
differentiable.
In part (c) the response did not earn the first point because the response does not include the average value
formula. The response did not earn the second point because the response does not include the correct answer.
In part (d) the response did not earn the first point because the response does not include the value of ( ) 140 . g′ The
response did not earn the second point because the response does not include the correct interpretation.