Integration and Accumulation of Change
UNIT

6

SAMPLE INSTRUCTIONAL 
ACTIVITIES

The sample activities on this page are optional. They were developed in 
partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways that they 
approach teaching some of the topics in this unit.

t

he integral from negative 2 to 5 of open paren x squared plus 5 close paren d x equals lim over n right arrow normal infinity of the sum from i equals 1 to n of open paren 7 over n close paren times open paren open paren negative 2 plus 7 over n i close paren squared plus 5 close pare
n

th

e 
i
nt
egr a l of 
ope n p
aren 5 x plus 2 close paren to the 20th power d x equals 1 over 21 times open paren 5 x plus 2 close paren to the 21st power plus C

Activity
Topic
Sample Activity

1

2

3

6.3
Quickwrite
Present the class with several examples of definite integrals set equal to Riemann sums 

in summation notation, for example

2

Ask students to take five minutes to identify and write about all common elements 
between the two expressions and why they think the two expressions are equivalent. 
After finishing the five minutes, ask students to share their observations with the class.

6.9
Look For a Pattern 
Present students with several indefinite integrals and proposed, yet incorrect, 

antiderivatives, for example
 Ask them to check 

the antiderivatives by differentiating each and comparing to the original integrands. 
As students see that each antiderivative is incorrect, ask them to identify a pattern 
within the errors. Identifying this pattern will establish the foundation for integrating 
using substitution.

6.10
Odd One Out 
To help students select a strategy, form groups of four, presenting each student an 
indefinite integral whose integrand is rational. For each group, include one integrand 
that requires long division or completing the square. Ask students to decide if their 
example fits with the group. Identifying the odd one out will help students connect 
integrand form to the appropriate strategy.

112
AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
