UNIT

2
10–15%_{}_{AB}_{}5–10% _{BC}_{AP EXAM WEIGHTING} ~13–14_{}_{AB}_{}~9–10 _{BC}_{CLASS PERIODS}

Developing Understanding

Derivatives allow us to determine instantaneous rates of change. To develop understanding 
of how the definition of the derivative applies limits to average rates of change, create 
opportunities for students to explore average rates of change over increasingly small 
intervals. Graphing calculator explorations of how various operations affect slopes of 
tangent lines help students to make sense of basic rules and properties of differentiation. 
Encourage students to apply the order of operations as they select differentiation rules. 
Developing differentiation skills will allow students to model realistic instantaneous rates of 
change in Unit 4 and to analyze graphs in Unit 5.

Building the Mathematical Practices

1.E
2.B
4.C

Mathematicians know that a solution will only be as good as the procedure used to find 
it and that the difference between being correct and incorrect can often be traced to 
an arithmetic or procedural error. In other words, mathematicians know that the details 
matter. Students often find it difficult to apply mathematical procedures—including the 
rules of differentiation—with precision and accuracy. For example, students may drop 
important notation, such as a parenthesis, or misapply the product rule by taking the 
derivative of each factor separately and then multiplying those together. The content 
of Unit 2 is a foundational entry point for practicing the skill of applying mathematical 
procedures and learning to self-correct before common mistakes occur. 

This is also an opportunity to revisit and reinforce the practice of connecting 
representations, as students will be seeing derivatives presented in analytical, numerical, 
graphical, and verbal representations. Students can practice by extracting information 
about the original function, f, from a graphical representation of f ′. This can help prevent 
misunderstandings when examining the graph of a derivative (such as misinterpreting it as 
the graph of the original function instead).

Preparing for the AP Exam 

Students should practice presenting clear mathematical structures that connect 
their work with definitions or theorems. For example, when asked to estimate 
the slope of the line tangent to a curve at a given point based on information 
provided in a table of values, students must present a difference quotient: 

C 
p r
i me o

f
 
3
.
5
 
a l
m
o

s
t

 e q ua l

s
 
the fraction with numerator C of 4 minus C of 3 and denominator 4 minus 3 equals the fraction with numerator 12.8 minus 11.2 and denominator 1
. . Failure to present this structure will cost 

students the point they might have earned, even with a correct numerical answer. 
Similarly, to evaluate the derivative of f 
o f
 x equals u of x times v of 
x at 
, students are 
expected to show the product rule structure, as in f
 
p r i m e of 3 e
q
u
a
l
s
 
u
 
of 3 v prime of 3 plus v of 3 u prime of 
3), and 
import values. Finally, students need to present mathematical expressions evaluated on the 
calculator and use specified rounding procedures, typically rounding or truncating to three 
places after the decimal point. It is helpful to establish the habit of storing intermediate 
calculations in the calculator in order to avoid accumulation of rounding errors.

Differentiation: 
Definition and 
Fundamental Properties

BIG IDEA 1
Change  CHA

Bullet How can a state determine 

the rate of change in high 
school graduates at a 
particular level of public 
investment in education (in 
graduates per dollar) based 
on a model for the number 
of graduates as a function 
of the state’s education 
budget? 

BIG IDEA 2
Limits  LIM

Bullet Why do mathematical 

properties and rules 
for simplifying and 
evaluating limits apply to 
differentiation?

BIG IDEA 3
Analysis of
Functions 

  

FUN
Bullet If you knew that the rate 

of change in high school 
graduates at a particular 
level of public investment 
in education (in graduates 
per dollar) was a positive 
number, what might that 
tell you about the number 
of graduates at that level of 
investment? 

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
51
