202

Task Verbs Used  
in Free-Response 
Questions

The following task verbs are commonly used in the free-response questions:

	Bullet Approximate: Use rounded decimal values or other estimates in calculations, 

which require writing an expression to show work.

Bullet Calculate/Write an expression: Write an appropriate expression or equation 

to answer a question. Unless otherwise directed, calculations also require 
evaluating an expression or solving an equation, but the expression or 
equation must also be presented to show work. “Calculate” tasks might also be 
formulated as “How many?” or “What is the value?”

	Bullet Determine: Apply an appropriate definition, theorem, or test to identify values, 

intervals, or solutions whose existence or uniqueness can be established. 
“Determine” tasks may also be phrased as “Find.”

Bullet Estimate: Use models or representations to find approximate values  

for functions.

Bullet Evaluate: Apply mathematical processes, including the use of appropriate 

rounding procedures, to find the value of an expression at a given point or over 
a given interval.

Bullet Explain: Use appropriate definitions or theorems to provide reasons or 

rationales for solutions and conclusions. “Explain” tasks may also be phrased 
as “Give a reason for...”

Bullet Identify/Indicate: Indicate or provide information about a specified topic, 

without elaboration or explanation.

Bullet Interpret: Describe the connection between a mathematical expression 

or solution and its meaning within the realistic context of a problem, often 
including consideration of units. 

Bullet Interpret (when given a representation): Identify mathematical information 

represented graphically, numerically, analytically, and/or verbally, with and 
without technology.

Bullet Justify: Identify a logical sequence of mathematical definitions, theorems, or 

tests to support an argument or conclusion, explain why these apply, and then 
apply them.

Bullet Represent: Use appropriate graphs, symbols, words, and/or tables of 

numerical values to describe mathematical concepts, characteristics, and/or 
relationships.

Bullet Verify: Confirm that the conditions of a mathematical definition, theorem, or 

test are met in order to explain why it applies in a given situation. Alternately, 
confirm that solutions are accurate and appropriate.

AP Calculus AB and BC · Exam Information 
return to contents
