Parametric Equations, Polar Coordinates
UNIT
9
SAMPLE INSTRUCTIONAL
ACTIVITIES
The sample activities on this page are optional. They were developed in
partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways that they
approach teaching some of the topics in this unit.
Activity Topic Sample Activity
1 9.2 Numbered Heads Together
Organize the class into groups of four and give each student a number. Give the
class one set of parametric equations and have students individually find the second
derivative. When all students in a group have finished, have them stand up to discuss
their answers, make any necessary corrections, and then sit back down. Choose a
group and call a specific student number so that the student can share the answer with
the class.
2 9.5
9.6
Scavenger Hunt
Create cards containing a parametric initial value question and the answer to a different
question. Students can start at any question, moving around the room to make a full
circuit of all questions once complete. Focus on giving students an initial value and
asking for one or both component values at a different t- or x-value (e.g.,x′(t) = 2t,
y′(t) = cos(t), and position is (2, 0) at t = π. Find position att =
5
6
π
.).
3 9.8 Create Representations
Givestudentspolarequationsofvarioustypes:circle,limaçonwithinnerloop,cardioid,
dimpledlimaçon,rosecurve,orlemniscates.Havestudentscreateatableofvalues,
sketchthegraphofthecurveusingrectangularcoordinates,andsketchthegraphof
thecurveusingpolarcoordinates.Prefacethisactivitybymodelingthestepswithone
functiononlargepaper,usingwikistickstoshowthey-values asheightsbecomingthe
r-values asradii.
4 9.8 Paraphrasing
Give students a proof which derives the polar area formula. Ask them to restate the
meaning and derivation of this formula in their own words. Have them also compare
and contrast this formula to the integration used to find areas under functions in the
Cartesian coordinate system.
5 9.9 Stand Up, Hand Up, Pair Up
Give each pair of students a polar area question to solve. Once they have completed
both roles obtaining only the integral setup, have them use a calculator to find the
numeric solution and confirm with you before standing up to switch pairs.
AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework return to Contents 165