UNIT

6
15–20%_{}_{AB}_{}15–20% _{BC}_{AP EXAM WEIGHTING} ~18–20_{}_{AB}_{}~15–16 _{BC}_{CLASS PERIODS}

Developing Understanding

This unit establishes the relationship between differentiation and integration using the 
Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. Students begin by exploring the contextual meaning of 
areas of certain regions bounded by rate functions. Integration determines accumulation 
of change over an interval, just as differentiation determines instantaneous rate of change 
at a point. Students need to understand that integration is a limiting case of a sum of 
products (areas) in the same way that differentiation is a limiting case of a quotient of 
differences (slopes). Future units will apply the idea of accumulation of change to a variety 
of realistic and geometric applications. 

Building the Mathematical Practices

1.D
1.E
2.C
3.D 

Students often struggle with the relationship between differentiation and integration. 
They think that integration is simply differentiation in reverse order. However, to apply 
the rules of integration correctly, students must think more strategically, taking into 
consideration how the “pieces” fit together. Students will need explicit guidance for 
choosing an appropriate antidifferentiation strategy that’s based on the underlying 
patterns in different categories of integrands (e.g., using u-substitution when they 
recognize that the integrand is a factor of the derivative of a composite function or 
using integration by parts for an integrand, udv, that is related to a term in the derivative 
of the product uv bc only).

Students also struggle with relating a symbolic limit of a Riemann sum to that limit 
expressed as a definite integral, because of the complexity of the expressions. To help 
students feel more comfortable working with these expressions, use explicit strategies, 
such as helping students to break complex expressions into familiar components, or 
matching expressions for a definite integral with the limit of a Riemann sum, and vice 
versa.

Preparing for the AP Exam 

Students should be careful applying the chain rule, both when differentiating functions 
defined by integrals and when integrating using u-substitution. Students will need to 
recognize integrands that are factors of a chain rule derivative and will benefit from 
opportunities to practice u-substitution until the process is internalized. Students will 
additionally need to recognize integrands that suggest strategies such as integration by 
parts or partial fractions and should use mixed practice in preparation for the exam  
bc only. 

When using a calculator to evaluate a definite integral in a free-response 
question, students are expected to present the expression for the definite 
integral, including endpoints of integration, and an appropriately placed 
differential. When evaluating an integral without a calculator, students need to 
present an appropriate antiderivative and include a constant of integration with 
indefinite integrals. As always, students must be careful about parentheses usage 
and avoid writing strings of equal signs equating expressions that are not equal.

Integration and 
Accumulation of Change 

BIG IDEA 1
Change  CHA

Bullet Given information about a 

rate of population growth 
over time, how can we 
determine how much the 
population changed over a 
given interval of time?

BIG IDEA 2
Limits LIM

Bullet If compounding more often 

increases the amount in 
an account with a given 
rate of return and term, 
why doesn’t compounding 
continuously result in an 
infinite account balance, all 
other things being equal?

BIG IDEA 3
Analysis of  
Functions  FUN

Bullet How is integrating to 

find areas related to 
differentiating to find 
slopes?

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
109
