Using the Unit Guides

UNIT OPENERS
Developing Understanding provides an overview that 
contextualizes and situates the key content of the unit within 
the scope of the course.

The big ideas serve as the foundation of the course and help 
develop understanding as they spiral throughout the course. 
The essential questions are thought-provoking questions that 
motivate students and inspire inquiry.

Building the Mathematical Practices describes specific skills 
within the practices that are appropriate to focus on in that unit. 
Certain practices have been noted to indicate areas of emphasis 
for that unit.

Preparing for the AP Exam provides helpful tips and common 
student misunderstandings identified from prior exam data.

UNIT

1
10–15%_{}_{AB}_{}5–10% _{BC}_{AP EXAM WEIGHTING} ~22–23_{}_{AB}_{}13–14 _{BC}_{CLASS PERIODS}

Developing Understanding

Limits introduce the subtle distinction between evaluating a function at a point and 
considering what value the function is approaching, if any, as x approaches a point. This 
distinction allows us to extend understanding of asymptotes and holes in graphs with 
formal definitions of continuity. Consider reviewing rational functions when introducing 
limits, rather than beginning the year with a full review of precalculus topics. Limits are the 
foundation for differentiation (Unit 2), integration (Unit 6), and infinite series (Unit 10) bc 
only. They are the basis for important definitions and for theorems that are used to solve 
realistic problems involving change and to justify conclusions.

Building the Mathematical Practices

2.B
2.C
3.C
3.D 

Mathematical information may be organized or presented graphically, numerically, 
analytically, or verbally. Mathematicians must be able to communicate effectively in all of 
these contexts and transition seamlessly from one representation to another. Limits lay 
the groundwork for students’ ongoing development of skills associated with taking what 
is presented in a table, an equation, or a sentence and translating that information into a 
graph (or vice versa). Help students explicitly practice matching different representations 
that show the same information, focusing on building their comfort level with translating 
analytical and verbal representations. This will be instrumental to their development of 
proficiency in this practice. The use of graphing calculators to help students explore these 
connections is strongly encouraged.

Mathematicians also explain reasoning and justify conclusions using definitions, 
theorems, and tests. A common student misunderstanding is that they don’t need to 
write relevant given information before drawing the conclusion of a theorem. In Unit 1, 
students should be given explicit instruction and time to practice “connecting the 
dots” by first demonstrating that all conditions or hypotheses have been met and 
then drawing the conclusion.

Preparing for the AP Exam

This course is a full-year experience building toward mastery assessed using the AP 
Exam. Therefore, it is important to consider both specific content and skills related to each 
unit and to build a coherent understanding of the whole. After studying Unit 1, students will 
be expected to evaluate or estimate limits presented graphically, numerically, analytically, 
or verbally. To avoid missed opportunities to earn points on the AP Exam, students need 
opportunities to consistently practice using correct mathematical notation and presenting 
set-ups and appropriately rounded answers when using a calculator. Two sections of 
the exam do not allow calculator use. Some questions on the other two sections require 
it. From the first unit onward, emphasize the importance of hypotheses for theorems. 
Explore why each hypothesis is needed in order to ensure that the conclusion follows. 
Students should establish the practice of explicitly verifying that a theorem’s hypotheses 
are satisfied before applying the theorem.

Limits and  
Continuity

BIG IDEA 1
Change CHA

 § Can change occur at an 

instant?

BIG IDEA 2
Limits LIM

 § How does knowing the 

value of a limit, or that a 
limit does not exist, help 
you to make sense of 
interesting features of 
functions and their graphs?

BIG IDEA 3
Analysis of  
Functions FUN

 § How do we close loopholes 

so that a conclusion about 
a function is always true?

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
RetuRn to contents
29

NOTE: Labels are used to distinguish each unique element of the required course content and are used throughout this course and exam 
description. Additionally, they are used in the AP Question Bank and other resources found in AP Classroom. Enduring understandings 
are labeled sequentially according to the big idea that they are related to. Learning objectives are labeled to correspond with the enduring 
understanding they relate to. Finally, essential knowledge statements are labeled to correspond with the learning objective they relate to.  

BIG IDEA

LIM

Limits 

LEARNING  
OBJECTIVE

LIM-1.B 
Interpret limits expressed in 
analytic notation.

ESSENTIAL 
KNOWLEDGE

LIM-1.B.1  
A limit can be expressed 
in multiple ways, including 
graphically, numerically, 
and analytically.

ENDURING 
UNDERSTANDING

LIM-1
Reasoning with definitions, 
theorems, and properties 
can be used to justify claims 
about limits. 

REQUIRED COURSE CONTENT LABELING SYSTEM

24
AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
