UNIT

8
10–15%_{}_{AB}_{}5–10% _{BC}_{AP EXAM WEIGHTING} ~19–20_{}_{AB}_{}~13–14 _{BC}_{CLASS PERIODS}

Developing Understanding

In this unit, students will learn how to find the average value of a function, model particle 
motion and net change, and determine areas, volumes, and lengths bc only defined by 
the graphs of functions. Students will develop an understanding of integration that can 
be transferred across these and many other applications. Understanding that the area, 
volume, and length bc only problems studied in this unit are limiting cases of Riemann 
sums of rectangle areas, prism volumes, or segment lengths bc only saves students 
from memorizing a long list of seemingly unrelated formulas and develops meaningful 
understanding of integration.

Building the Mathematical Practices

1.D
2.D
3.D
4.C 

As in Unit 4, students will need to practice interpreting verbal scenarios, extracting 
relevant mathematical information, selecting an appropriate procedure, and then 
applying that procedure correctly and interpreting their solution in the context of the 
problem. Now that students have been exposed to application problems involving 
both differentiation and antidifferentiation, some may struggle to determine which 
procedure is applicable. Walk students through different types of scenarios and explain 
the underlying reasons why some situations call for differentiation while others call for 
integration.

This unit also involves geometric applications of integration. When using the disc and 
washer methods, focusing on orientation (i.e., horizontal or vertical) will help students 
determine whether the “thickness” is with respect to x or y. Have students practice 
solving variations on these calculus-based geometry problems until they can decide 
which variable to integrate with respect to without prompting. Relating graphical 
representations to symbolic representations, such as Riemann sums and definite 
integrals, develops these skills and helps students to master the content.

Preparing for the AP Exam 

On the AP Exam, students need to identify relevant information conveyed in various 
representations. Key words, such as “accumulation” or “net change,” help to identify 
mathematical structures and corresponding solution strategies. Some students confuse 
the average value and the average rate of change of a function on an interval. To alleviate 
confusion, first provide students with average value problems accompanied by relevant 
graphs and guide them to an understanding of why an average value may be less than, 
equal to, or greater than the midpoint of the range. Then review average rate of change 
problems from Unit 2 and present students with free-response questions that will allow 
them to practice distinguishing between average value and average rate of change 
problems. 

In free-response questions, continue to require students to show supporting work 
by presenting a correct expression using appropriate notation and the mathematical 

structures of solutions, as in V
 e
q u
als pi the integral from 1 to 4 of open bracket open paren f of x minus 3 close paren squared minus open paren g of x minus 3 close paren squared close bracket d x

for example.

Applications of 
Integration

BIG IDEA 1
Change  CHA

Bullet How is finding the number 

of visitors to a museum 
over an interval of time 
based on information 
about the rate of entry 
similar to finding the area 
of a region between a 
curve and the x-axis?

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
143
