Parametric Equations, Polar Coordinates

UNIT

9

SAMPLE INSTRUCTIONAL 
ACTIVITIES

The sample activities on this page are optional. They were developed in 
partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways that they 
approach teaching some of the topics in this unit.   

Activity
Topic 
Sample Activity

1
9.2
Numbered Heads Together
Organize the class into groups of four and give each student a number. Give the 
class one set of parametric equations and have students individually find the second 
derivative. When all students in a group have finished, have them stand up to discuss 
their answers, make any necessary corrections, and then sit back down. Choose a 
group and call a specific student number so that the student can share the answer with 
the class. 

2
9.5 
9.6
Scavenger Hunt 
Create cards containing a parametric initial value question and the answer to a different 
question. Students can start at any question, moving around the room to make a full 
circuit of all questions once complete. Focus on giving students an initial value and 
asking for one or both component values at a different t- or x-value (e.g., x prime of t equals 2 t

y prime of t equals cosine t
 and position is (2, 0) att equals piFind position att e quals 5 pi over 

6 ). 

3
9.8
Create Representations
Give students polar equations of various types: circle, limaçon with inner loop, cardioid, 
dimpled limaçon, rose curve, or lemniscates. Have students create a table of values, 
sketch the graph of the curve using rectangular coordinates, and sketch the graph of 
the curve using polar coordinates. Preface this activity by modeling the steps with one 
function on large paper, using wiki sticks to show the y-values as heights becoming the 
r-values as radii. 

4
9.8
Paraphrasing 
Give students a proof which derives the polar area formula. Ask them to restate the 
meaning and derivation of this formula in their own words. Have them also compare 
and contrast this formula to the integration used to find areas under functions in the 
Cartesian coordinate system.

5
9.9
Stand Up, Hand Up, Pair Up 
Give each pair of students a polar area question to solve. Once they have completed 
both roles obtaining only the integral setup, have them use a calculator to find the 
numeric solution and confirm with you before standing up to switch pairs. 

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
165
