Limits and Continuity
UNIT

1

SAMPLE INSTRUCTIONAL 
ACTIVITIES

The sample activities on this page are optional. They were developed in 
partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways that they 
approach teaching some of the topics in this unit. 

Activity
Topic
Sample Activity

1
1.2
Notation Read Aloud
Begin by writing a limit expression in analytical form (e.g., lim x3), and then read the 

expression aloud to the class: “The limit of x cubed as x appr

x→0-

oaches 0 from the left.” 
Do the same for 1–2 additional examples that use a variety of limit notations (e.g., 
the symbol for infinity). Then have students pair up and take turns reading aloud 
different limit expressions to one another.

2
1.3
1.4
Create Representations

Present students with a limit expression in analytical form (e.g.,l
im o
ver

 x r ig

ht arrow 3 of the fraction with numerator x squared minus 9 and denominator x minus 3 close paren 

and then have them translate that expression into a variety of representations:  
constructing a graph, creating a table of values, and writing it as a verbal expression. 
Then have students check their graphs and tables using technology.

3
1.7
Work Backward
Present students with a set of limit problems. Rather than determining the given 
limits, have them make a list of the various strategies that would be used to determine 
the limits (e.g., factoring, multiplying by conjugate, and simplify using trigonometric 
identities). After confirming their list is complete, have students work in pairs to create 
and write limit problems, each requiring one of the listed strategies. Then have them 
swap problems with another pair of students to complete each other’s problems.

4
1.11
Discussion Groups
Give each group of students a piecewise-defined function, a graph paper, and a 
list of x-values. Have them graph the function, then discuss whether the function 
is continuous or discontinuous at each x-value, and explain why. Ask students to 
take turns recording the group’s conclusion for each x-value. If continuous, have 
students discuss and show that all three continuity conditions are satisfied. If 
discontinuous, have students state which condition was not satisfied.

5
1.16
Think Aloud
In small groups, have students discuss the Intermediate Value Theorem and share 
ideas about real-world applications (e.g., speed of your car and weight of your 
kitten). Have groups post their ideas on a classroom wall using sticky notes.

32
AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
