2 AP Calculus AB and BC return to Contents
Offering AP Courses:
The AP Course Audit
TheAPProgramunequivocallysupportsthe principlethateachschoolimplements
its own curriculum that will enable students to develop the content understandings
and skills described in the course framework.
While the unit sequence represented in this publication is optional, the AP Program
does have a short list of curricular and resource requirements that must be
fulfilled before a school can label a course “Advanced Placement” or “AP.” Schools
wishing to offer AP courses must participate in the AP Course Audit, a process
through which AP teachers’ course materials are reviewed by college faculty. The
AP Course Audit was created to provide teachers and administrators with clear
guidelines on curricular and resource requirements for AP courses and to help
colleges and universities validate courses marked “AP” on students’ transcripts.
This process ensures that AP teachers’ courses meetorexceedthecurricularand
resource expectations that college and secondary school faculty have established
for college-level courses.
TheAPCourseAuditformissubmittedbytheAPteacherandtheschoolprincipal(or
designatedadministrator)toconfirmawarenessandunderstandingofthecurricular
andresourcerequirements.Asyllabusorcourseoutline,detailinghowcourse
requirementsaremet,issubmittedbytheAPteacherforreviewbycollegefaculty.
Please visit the AP Course Audit website for more information to support the
preparation and submission of materials for the AP Course Audit.
How the AP Program
Is Developed
The scope of content for an AP course and exam is derived from an analysis of
hundreds of syllabi and course offerings of colleges and universities. Using this
research and data, a committee of college faculty and expert AP teachers work
within the scope of the corresponding college course to articulate what students
shouldknowandbeabletodouponthecompletionoftheAPcourse.Theresulting
course framework is the heart of this course and exam description and serves as a
blueprint of the content and skills that can appear on an AP Exam.
The AP Test Development Committees are responsible for developing each AP
Exam, ensuring the exam questions are aligned to the course framework. The
AP Exam development process is a multiyear endeavor; all AP Exams undergo
extensive review, revision, piloting, and analysis to ensure that questions are
accurate, fair, and valid, and that there is an appropriate spread of difficulty across
the questions.
Committee members are selected to represent a variety of perspectives and
institutions (public and private, small and large schools and colleges), and a range
of gender, racial/ethnic, and regional groups. A list of each subject’s current AP
Test Development Committee members is available on AP Central®.
Throughout AP course and exam development, College Board gathers feedback
from various stakeholders in both secondary schools and higher education
institutions. This feedback is carefully considered to ensure that AP courses and
exams are able to provide students with a college-level learning experience and
the opportunity to demonstrate their qualifications for advanced placement or
college credit.