UNIT

9
~10–15% _{BC}_{AP EXAM WEIGHTING}
~10–11 BC CLASS PERIODS

Developing Understanding

In this unit, students will build on their understanding of straight-line motion to solve problems 
in which particles are moving along curves in the plane. Students will define parametric 
equations and vector-valued functions to describe planar motion and apply calculus to solve 
motion problems. Students will learn that polar equations are a special case of parametric 
equations and will apply calculus to analyze graphs and determine lengths and areas. Have 
students treat this unit as an opportunity to reinforce past learning and transfer knowledge 
and skills to new situations, rather than as a new list of facts or strategies to memorize.
Building the Mathematical Practices

1.D
1.E
2.D
3.D 

As students transition to parametric and vector-valued functions, they’ll need to 
practice previously learned concepts and skills to reinforce the new procedures and 
representations they’re learning in Unit 9. As with particle motion on a line, students learning 
to handle motion in the plane will need to practice interpreting which procedure is needed 
for different scenarios (differentiation or integration) and solving for speed, velocity, 
distance traveled, or initial position. 

Reinforce the importance of precise notation, particularly regarding the variable of 
differentiation, as well as correct application of the chain rule. Leibniz notation helps 
students to remember how to find the derivative of y with respect to x for coordinates 
defined using the parameter t: 

d 
y 

ov

er
 d

 x

 e

quals the fraction with numerator d y over d t and denominator d x over d t equals d y over d t

_{d} t

 over d x

 providedd x

 o ver d t is not equal to 0 Sinced y

 over d x

 is in terms of t, students must be 

particularly careful when determiningd s

qu

a

_{r} ed y over d x squared

Similarly, using definite integrals to represent lengths and areas defined by polar curves 
is based on the same principles as calculating lengths and areas defined by the graphs 
of more familiar functions (i.e., the limit of a Riemann sum). Students will need to practice 
with trigonometric identities, radian measures and formulas for arc length and area of a 
sector to reinforce practice with associated calculus topics.
Preparing for the AP Exam

While students need more experience shifting mindsets from rectangular to polar 
coordinate systems, errors in arithmetic, algebra, trigonometry, and procedures such 
as the chain rule are often even more problematic. Provide opportunities for students to 
reinforce familiar skills and concepts as they practice new techniques in preparation for the 
AP Exam. As with analysis of graphs, sign charts can be useful tools for identifying answers 
to questions about the direction of motion or whether speed is increasing or decreasing, 
for example. To earn points for justification, however, students must connect their work 
to a relevant definition or theorem. Continue to emphasize accounting for initial values, as 
in past units, as well as precise communication and notational fluency. Paying attention to 
subscripts in problems involving more than one particle is essential to clear communication.

Parametric Equations, 
Polar Coordinates, and 
Vector-Valued Functions 

BIG IDEA 1
Change  CHA

Bullet 	

BIG IDEA 3
Analysis of  
Functions FUN

Bullet 	 How does the chain rule 

help us to analyze graphs 
defined using parametric 
equations or polar 
functions?

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
163
