Applications of Integration
UNIT
8
SAMPLE INSTRUCTIONAL
ACTIVITIES
The sample activities on this page are optional. They were developed in
partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways that they
approach teaching some of the topics in this unit.
Activity Topic Sample Activity
1 8.1 Scavenger Hunt
Postaroundtheroom8–10problemcards,eachofwhichalsoincludesasolutionto
apreviousproblem.Includeaveragevalueproblemswithtablesandfunctions;also
includetablesthathavevaluesfrom0to16,forexample,butwheretheaveragevalueis
onlyontheintervalfrom0to12.Card1couldsay:Findtheaveragevalueoff(x)=sin(x)
on the interval [0, π]. A second card would have the answer to that card
2
π
{
{
|
}
}
| along with
a new question: Find the average value of f(x) = 3x2
- 3 on [1, 3]. A third card would
have that answer (10) and so on. The answer to the last card goes on top of the
first card.
2 8.6 Round Table
In groups of four, each student has an identical paper with the same free-response
question, along with four labeled boxes representing steps in the problem:
§ Identify all points of intersection.
§ Set up the integral(s).
§ Integrate by hand.
§ Integrate using a calculator.
Have students complete the first step on their paper, and then pass the paper
clockwise to another member in their group. That student checks the first step and
then completes the second step on the paper. Students rotate again and the process
continues until each student has their own paper back.
3 8.9
8.10
8.11
8.12
Quiz-Quiz-Trade
Create cards with problems revolving around the x- or y-axis and others revolving
around other axes (e.g., y = x or y = 3). Give each student a card and have them write
their answer on the back. Students quiz a partner about their own card then switch
cards and repeat the process with a new partner.
For the first round, concentrate on just setting up the integrals.
In the second round, students can use their calculators to find the volume.
146 AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework return to Contents