AP Calculus AB and BC return to Contents 1
About AP
The Advanced Placement® Program (AP®) enables willing and academically
prepared students to pursue college-level studies—with the opportunity to earn
college credit, advanced placement, or both—while still in high school. Through
AP courses in more than 40 subjects, each culminating in a challenging exam,
students learn to think critically, construct solid arguments, and see many sides
of an issue—skills that prepare them for college and beyond. Taking AP courses
demonstrates to college admission officers that students have sought the most
challenging curriculum available to them, and research indicates that students who
score a 3 or higher on an AP Exam typically experience greater academic success
in college and are more likely to earn a college degree than non-AP students.
Each AP teacher’s syllabus is evaluated and approved by faculty from some of
the nation’s leading colleges and universities, and AP Exams are developed and
scored by college faculty and experienced AP teachers. Most four-year colleges
and universities in the United States grant credit, advanced placement, or both on
the basis of successful AP Exam scores—more than 3,300 institutions worldwide
annually receive AP scores.
AP Course Development
In an ongoing effort to maintain alignment with best practices in college-level
learning, AP courses and exams emphasize challenging, research-based curricula
aligned with higher education expectations.
Individual teachers are responsible for designing their own curriculum for AP
courses,selectingappropriatecollege-levelreadings,assignments,andresources.
This course and exam description presents the content and skills that are the
focus of the corresponding college course and that appear on the AP Exam. It also
organizes the content and skills into a series of units that represent a sequence
found in widely adopted college textbooks and that many AP teachers have told
us they follow to focus their instruction. The intention of this publication is to
respect teachers’ time and expertise by providing a roadmap that they can modify
and adapt to their local priorities and preferences. Moreover, by organizing the AP
course content and skills into units, the AP Program is able to provide teachers and
students with free formative assessments—Progress Checks—that teachers can
assign throughout the year to measure student progress as they acquire content
knowledge and develop skills.
Enrolling Students: Access, Opportunity, and
Readiness
The AP Program welcomes all students willing to challenge themselves with
college-level coursework and career preparation. We strongly encourage
educators to invite students into AP classes, including students from ethnic, racial,
socioeconomic, geographic, or other groups not broadly participating in a school’s
AP program. We believe that readiness for AP is attainable, and that educators
can expand readiness by opening access to Pre-AP course work. We commit to
support educators and communities in their efforts to make AP courses widely
available, advancing students in their plans for college and careers.