Differentiation: Definition and Fundamental Properties
UNIT
2
SAMPLE INSTRUCTIONAL
ACTIVITIES
The sample activities on this page are optional. They were developed in
partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways that they
approach teaching some of the topics in this unit.
Activity Topic Sample Activity
1 2.1
2.2
2.3
Graph and Switch
Present students with two or three functions and the graph of each function. Have each
student choose a random derivative question and one function. Questions could include:
Find the average rate of change on an interval, instantaneous rate of change at a point,
derivative as a function, derivative value at a point, or equations for tangent or normal
lines at a point. Have students answer their question and place their answer onto the
function’s graph. Then have students share their solutions with each other to give and
receive feedback.
2 2.4 Match Mine
Create cards containing graph images of functions with various continuous,
discontinuous, differentiable, and nondifferentiable points or intervals. Provide each
student in a pair with the same nine cards. Student A arranges their graphs in a 3 ×3
grid, which is not visible to Student B. Student A describes each of their graph’s positions
using information about continuity and differentiability to describe the graph. Based on the
descriptions, Student B attempts to arrange their cards to match the grid of Student A.
3 2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
Error Analysis
Assign a function to each student. Ask them to find the function’s derivative using one
or more derivative rules. Allow them to check their answers. Ask half of the class to redo
their work to include an error, thus having the wrong answer. Ask students to record their
correct or incorrect work on a card. Mix up the cards and redistribute, having students
determine if the answer is correct or incorrect. If incorrect, they should explain what error
was made, and find the correct answer.
4 2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
Graphic Organizer
Provide students with colored paper, pens, and markers. Ask them to create a chart, a
foldable card, or other creative method to organize all the derivative rules. For each rule,
have them include the mathematical definition, examples, pictures, and helpful hints to
understand and remember the rule.
5 2.8
2.9
Round Table
Provide each student with the same worksheet containing four functions that require
the product rule or quotient rule when finding the derivative. Then have students sit in
groups of four. Each student determines the derivative of function No. 1, and then they
pass their papers clockwise to the next student. Each student checks the first problem
and, if necessary, discusses any mistakes with the previous student. Each student now
completes function No. 2 on the paper, and the process continues until each student has
their original paper back.
54 AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework return to Contents