Infinite Sequences and Series
UNIT
10
SAMPLE INSTRUCTIONAL
ACTIVITIES
The sample activities on this page are optional. They were developed in
partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways that they
approach teaching some of the topics in this unit.
Activity Topic Sample Activity
1 10.1 Predict and Confirm
Demonstrate a geometric series, the harmonic series, and the alternating series by
distributing pieces of a donut, pizza, or licorice. Ask the class to predict how much
the student(s) will eventually receive in total. For instance, give three students each
one-fourth, then one-fourth of the remaining fourth, and so on. Students should guess
that since the remaining part is approaching zero, each student will eventually receive
one-third.
For alternating harmonic series, give one student a whole piece, then take away ½, then
give 1/3, then take away ¼, and so forth.
2 10.2
10.3
10.4
10.5
10.6
10.7
10.8
Graphic Organizer
Put students in groups with poster paper and have them organize and explain all the
series tests using pictures, text, flowcharts, cartoons, or other drawings. Have them
include each test’s conditions and how to choose which test to apply.
3 10.13 Odd One Out
Beginbymodelinganexample,suchasthreeimagesthatarepiecesoffurnitureandone
imageofahouseplant,explainingthatthehouseplantisthe“oddoneout”becauseit’snot
liketheotherimages.Thendistributeasetofseriessuchthatalloftheseries,exceptone,
havesomethingincommon.Forexample,alloftheseriesexceptonecouldhavethesame
typeofintervalofconvergence(open,closed,openatleftorrightendpoint).Ortheycould
convergeonlyattheseries’centerortheycouldconvergeforallrealnumbers.Thenhave
studentsdecidewhichseriesinthesetisthe“oddoneout.”
4 10.15 Collaborative Poster
Use this strategy for groups to create their own free-response questions. Give each
group of four students a basic series, such as sin
1
(x), cos (x), ex
, or
1+x
. Ask the
first two members to choose a manipulation of the series and show work to complete
the task. Ask the final two members to watch silently and confirm the first two steps.
Then the final two members choose further actions to perform on the new series (i.e.,
differentiate, integrate, and find interval of convergence).
180 AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework return to Contents