Course Content

Based on the Understanding by Design® (Wiggins and McTighe) model, this 
course framework provides a clear and detailed description of the course 
requirements necessary for student success. The framework specifies what 
students must know, be able to do, and understand, with a focus on big ideas 
that encompass core principles, theories, and processes of the discipline. The 
framework also encourages instruction that prepares students for advanced 
coursework in mathematics or other fields engaged in modeling change (e.g., 
pure sciences, engineering, or economics) and for creating useful, reasonable 
solutions to problems encountered in an ever-changing world.

BIG IDEAS
The big ideas serve as the foundation of the course and allow students to create 
meaningful connections among concepts. They are often abstract concepts 
or themes that become threads that run throughout the course. Revisiting the 
big ideas and applying them in a variety of contexts allows students to develop 
deeper conceptual understanding. Below are the big ideas of the course and a 
brief description of each. 

BIG IDEA 1: CHANGE (CHA)
Using derivatives to describe rates of change of one variable with respect 
to another or using definite integrals to describe the net change in one 
variable over an interval of another allows students to understand change 
in a variety of contexts. It is critical that students grasp the relationship 
between integration and differentiation as expressed in the Fundamental 
Theorem of Calculus—a central idea in AP Calculus.

BIG IDEA 2: LIMITS (LIM)
Beginning with a discrete model and then considering the consequences of 
a limiting case allows us to model real-world behavior and to discover and 
understand important ideas, definitions, formulas, and theorems in calculus: 
for example, continuity, differentiation, integration, and series bc only.

BIG IDEA 3: ANALYSIS OF FUNCTIONS (FUN)
Calculus allows us to analyze the behaviors of functions by relating limits 
to differentiation, integration, and infinite series and relating each of these 
concepts to the others.

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework  
return to Contents
13
