AP Calculus AB and BC 
return to Contents
5

AP Resources 
and Supports

By completing a simple activation process at the start of the school year, teachers 
and students receive access to a robust set of classroom resources. 

AP Classroom

AP Classroom is a dedicated online platform designed to support teachers and 
students throughout their AP experience. The platform provides a variety of 
powerful resources and tools to provide yearlong support to teachers and enable 
students to receive meaningful feedback on their progress. 

UNIT GUIDES
Appearing in this publication and on AP Classroom, these planning guides outline 
all required course content and skills, organized into commonly taught units. Each 
unit guide suggests a sequence and pacing of content, scaffolds skill instruction 
across units, organizes content into topics, and provides tips on taking the AP 
Exam.

PROGRESS CHECKS
Formative AP questions for every unit provide feedback to students on the areas 
where they need to focus. Available online, Progress Checks measure knowledge 
and skills through multiple-choice questions with rationales to explain correct and 
incorrect answers, and free-response questions with scoring information.

REPORTS
Reports provides teachers with a one-stop shop for student results on all 
assignment types, including Progress Checks. Teachers can view class trends 
and see where students struggle with content and skills that will be assessed on 
the AP Exam. Students can view their own progress over time to improve their 
performance before the AP Exam.

QUESTION BANK
The Question Bank is a searchable library of all AP questions that teachers use 
to build custom practice for their students. Teachers can create and assign 
assessments with formative topic questions from practice or released AP Exams.

Class Section Setup and Enrollment

Bullet Teachers and students sign into or create their College Board accounts.

Bullet Teachers confirm that they have added the course they teach to their AP 

Course Audit account and have had it approved by their school’s administrator.

Bullet Teachers or AP coordinators, depending on who the school has decided is 

responsible, set up class sections so students can access AP resources and
have exams ordered on their behalf.

Bullet Students join class sections with a join code provided by their teacher or AP

coordinator.

Bullet Students will be asked for additional information upon joining their first class 

section.
