Course Content
Based on the Understanding by Design® (Wiggins and McTighe) model, this
course framework provides a clear and detailed description of the course
requirements necessary for student success. The framework specifies what
students must know, be able to do, and understand, with a focus on big ideas
that encompass core principles, theories, and processes of the discipline. The
framework also encourages instruction that prepares students for advanced
coursework in mathematics or other fields engaged in modeling change (e.g.,
pure sciences, engineering, or economics) and for creating useful, reasonable
solutions to problems encountered in an ever-changing world.
BIG IDEAS
The big ideas serve as the foundation of the course and allow students to create
meaningful connections among concepts. They are often abstract concepts
or themes that become threads that run throughout the course. Revisiting the
big ideas and applying them in a variety of contexts allows students to develop
deeper conceptual understanding. Below are the big ideas of the course and a
brief description of each.
BIG IDEA 1: CHANGE (CHA)
Using derivatives to describe rates of change of one variable with respect
to another or using definite integrals to describe the net change in one
variable over an interval of another allows students to understand change
in a variety of contexts. It is critical that students grasp the relationship
between integration and differentiation as expressed in the Fundamental
Theorem of Calculus—a central idea in AP Calculus.
BIG IDEA 2: LIMITS (LIM)
Beginningwithadiscretemodelandthenconsideringtheconsequencesof
alimitingcaseallowsustomodelreal-worldbehaviorandtodiscoverand
understandimportantideas,definitions,formulas,andtheoremsincalculus:
forexample,continuity,differentiation,integration,andseriesbconly.
BIGIDEA3:ANALYSISOFFUNCTIONS(FUN)
Calculusallowsustoanalyzethebehaviorsoffunctionsbyrelatinglimits
todifferentiation,integration,andinfiniteseriesandrelatingeachofthese
conceptstotheothers.
AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework return to Contents 13