Contextual Applications of Dif ferentiation

UNIT

4

SAMPLE INSTRUCTIONAL 
ACTIVITIES

The sample activities on this page are optional. They were developed in 
partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways that they 
approach teaching some of the topics in this unit.  

Activity
Topic
Sample Activity

1
4.1
Quickwrite
Divide students into groups and give each group a context (outdoors, in a 
supermarket, in biology, in the government, at home, etc.). Students then write for a 
few minutes, listing things that are changing in that particular context.

2
4.2
Create Representations
Provide verbal descriptions of a roller coaster ride: at time 0, velocity is 0 but about to 
become positive; at time 2, velocity is positive and increasing; at time 5, velocity is 0 
and decreasing, etc. Have students graph position (from start), velocity, acceleration, 
speed, and then draw arrows at each point depicting whether their body would lean 
forward, backward, or not at all.

3
4.4
Marking the Text
Have students read through a problem and highlight/underline the given quantities 
and directions in a problem, stating whether that information always applies or applies 
only at an instant.

4
4.5
Round Table
Give students different related rates problems and a paper divided into five sections, 
titled as following:

BulletDraw a picture
BulletEquation 
BulletDerivative 
BulletSpecific information used
BulletInterpretation

Students first draw a picture of the situation and pass the papers clockwise. Students 
then critique the work in the previous section, complete the next section, and pass the 
papers again until all sections are completed.

5
4.6
Scavenger Hunt
A starter question is posted in the room, for example, “Approximate the  
value . . . .” Have students work through the problem to find the value and then look 
for that value at the top of another card posted in the room. Students then solve the 
problem on that card, for example, “Write the equation of the tangent line . . . ” and 
look for that solution on a third card, etc. The solution to the last problem will be on the 
starter card.

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
81
