UNIT

7
5–10%_{}_{AB}_{}5–10% _{BC}_{AP EXAM WEIGHTING}
~8–9 AB ~9–10 BC CLASS PERIODS

Developing Understanding

In this unit, students will learn to set up and solve separable differential equations. Slope 
fields can be used to represent solution curves to a differential equation and build 
understanding that there are infinitely many general solutions to a differential equation, 
varying only by a constant of integration. Students can locate a unique solution relevant 
to a particular situation, provided they can locate a point on the solution curve. By 
writing and solving differential equations leading to models for exponential growth and 
decay and logistic growth bc only, students build understanding of topics introduced 
in Algebra II and other courses.

Building the Mathematical Practices

1.E
2.C
3.G
4.D

In this unit, students will translate mathematical information from one representation 
to another by matching equations and slope fields, rewriting verbal statements 
as differential equations, and sketching slope fields that match their symbolic 
representations. Provide students with explicit guidance on how to select an 
appropriate graphing technique. As students practice Euler’s method, encourage them 
to transfer skills using tangent line approximations, rather than simply memorizing an 
algorithm bc only.

Because the problems in this unit model real-world scenarios, help students to develop 
proficiency in transferring the mathematical procedures they’ve learned in “x’s and 
y’s” to equivalent environments with variable names other than x, y, and t. Using 
differentiation to confirm that solutions to differential equations are accurate and 
appropriate also helps students to develop an understanding of what it means to say 
that an equation is a solution to a differential equation. 

Preparing for the AP Exam 

Students need to practice setting up and solving contextual questions involving 
separable differential equations until the solution strategy becomes routine: 
separate variables, antidifferentiate both sides of the equation and add a constant 
of integration, use initial conditions to determine the constant of integration, and 
rearrange the resulting expression to complete the solution. Failure to separate 
variables or omitting the constant of integration severely limits the number of points 
a student can earn on the AP Exam. A common error in antidifferentiation is to 
assume that all differential equations involving fractions have logarithmic solutions, 
presumably because some do. 

Students must learn to recognize the forms of differential equations resulting in 
exponential and logistic bc only models. These may be used or interpreted without 
performing the derivation. Remind students that differential equations give us 
information about the derivative and may be used directly to find information about a 
slope or rate of change.

 

Differential Equations 

BIG IDEA 3
Analysis of  
Functions  FUN

Bullet How can we derive a 

model for the number of 
computers, C, infected  
by a virus, given a model 
for how fast the computers 

are being infected, d 

C over d t

, at a 

particular time?

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
129
