UNIT
6 15–20%
AB 15–20%
BC AP EXAM WEIGHTING ~18–20 AB ~15–16BC CLASSPERIODS
Developing Understanding
Thisunitestablishestherelationshipbetweendifferentiationandintegrationusingthe
FundamentalTheoremofCalculus.Studentsbeginbyexploringthecontextualmeaningof
areasofcertainregionsboundedbyratefunctions.Integrationdeterminesaccumulation
ofchangeoveraninterval,justasdifferentiationdeterminesinstantaneousrateofchange
atapoint.Studentsneedtounderstandthatintegrationisalimitingcaseofasumof
products(areas)inthesamewaythatdifferentiationisalimitingcaseofaquotientof
differences(slopes).Futureunitswillapplytheideaofaccumulationofchangetoavariety
ofrealisticandgeometricapplications.
Building the Mathematical Practices
1.D 1.E 2.C 3.D
Students often struggle with the relationship between differentiation and integration.
They think that integration is simply differentiation in reverse order. However, to apply
the rules of integration correctly, students must think more strategically, taking into
consideration how the “pieces” fit together. Students will need explicit guidance for
choosing an appropriate antidifferentiation strategy that’s based on the underlying
patterns in different categories of integrands (e.g., using u-substitution when they
recognize that the integrand is a factor of the derivative of a composite function or
using integration by parts for an integrand, udv, that is related to a term in the derivative
of the product uvbconly).
StudentsalsostrugglewithrelatingasymboliclimitofaRiemannsumtothatlimit
expressedasadefiniteintegral,becauseofthecomplexityoftheexpressions.Tohelp
studentsfeelmorecomfortableworkingwiththeseexpressions,useexplicitstrategies,
suchashelpingstudentstobreakcomplexexpressionsintofamiliarcomponents,or
matchingexpressionsforadefiniteintegralwiththelimitofaRiemannsum,andvice
versa.
Preparing for the AP Exam
Studentsshouldbecarefulapplyingthechainrule,bothwhendifferentiatingfunctions
definedbyintegralsandwhenintegratingusingu-substitution.Studentswillneedto
recognizeintegrandsthatarefactorsofachainrulederivativeandwillbenefitfrom
opportunitiestopracticeu-substitutionuntiltheprocessisinternalized.Studentswill
additionallyneedtorecognizeintegrandsthatsuggeststrategiessuchasintegrationby
partsorpartialfractionsandshouldusemixedpracticeinpreparationfortheexam
bconly.
When using a calculator to evaluate a definite integral in a free-response
question, students are expected to present the expression for the definite
integral, including endpoints of integration, and an appropriately placed
differential. When evaluating an integral without a calculator, students need to
present an appropriate antiderivative and include a constant of integration with
indefinite integrals. As always, students must be careful about parentheses usage
and avoid writing strings of equal signs equating expressions that are not equal.
Integration and
Accumulation of Change
BIG IDEA 1
Change CHA
§ Given information about a
rate of population growth
over time, how can we
determine how much the
population changed over a
given interval of time?
BIG IDEA 2
Limits LIM
§ If compounding more often
increases the amount in
an account with a given
rate of return and term,
why doesn’t compounding
continuously result in an
infinite account balance, all
other things being equal?
BIG IDEA 3
Analysis of
Functions FUN
§ How is integrating to
find areas related to
differentiating to find
slopes?
AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework return to Contents 109