Applications of Integration
UNIT

8

SAMPLE INSTRUCTIONAL 
ACTIVITIES

The sample activities on this page are optional. They were developed in 
partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways that they 
approach teaching some of the topics in this unit.

Activity
Topic
Sample Activity

1
8.1
Scavenger Hunt 
Post around the room 8–10 problem cards, each of which also includes a solution to 
a previous problem. Include average value problems with tables and functions; also 
include tables that have values from 0 to 16, for example, but where the average value is 
only on the interval from 0 to 12. Card 1 could say: Find the average value of f of x equals sine x  
  

on the intervalopen bracket 0 comma pi close bracket A second card would have the answer to that cardo p

e
n
 p
a
ren 2 over pi close parenalong with 

a new question: Find the average value off of x equals 3 x squared minus 3
 on [1, 3]. A third card would 

have that answer (10) and so on. The answer to the last card goes on top of the 
first card. 

2
8.6
Round Table 
In groups of four, each student has an identical paper with the same free-response 
question, along with four labeled boxes representing steps in the problem:

Bullet Identify all points of intersection.

Bullet Set up the integral(s).

Bullet Integrate by hand.

Bullet Integrate using a calculator.

Have students complete the first step on their paper, and then pass the paper 
clockwise to another member in their group. That student checks the first step and 
then completes the second step on the paper. Students rotate again and the process 
continues until each student has their own paper back.

3
8.9
8.10
8.11
8.12

Quiz-Quiz-Trade 
Create cards with problems revolving around the x- or y-axis and others revolving 
around other axes (e.g., y = x or y = 3). Give each student a card and have them write 
their answer on the back. Students quiz a partner about their own card then switch 
cards and repeat the process with a new partner. 

For the first round, concentrate on just setting up the integrals.

In the second round, students can use their calculators to find the volume. 

146
AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
