Using the Unit Guides
UNIT OPENERS
Developing Understanding provides an overview that
contextualizes and situates the key content of the unit within
the scope of the course.
The big ideas serve as the foundation of the course and help
develop understanding as they spiral throughout the course.
The essential questions are thought-provoking questions that
motivate students and inspire inquiry.
BuildingtheMathematicalPracticesdescribes specific skills
within the practices that are appropriate to focus on in that unit.
Certain practices have been noted to indicate areas of emphasis
for that unit.
Preparing for the AP Exam provides helpful tips and common
student misunderstandings identified from prior exam data.
UNIT
1 10–15%
AB 5–10%
BC AP EXAM WEIGHTING ~22–23 AB 13–14BC CLASSPERIODS
Developing Understanding
Limitsintroducethesubtledistinctionbetweenevaluatingafunctionatapointand
consideringwhatvaluethefunctionisapproaching,ifany,asxapproachesapoint.This
distinctionallowsustoextendunderstandingofasymptotesandholesingraphswith
formaldefinitionsofcontinuity.Considerreviewingrationalfunctionswhenintroducing
limits,ratherthanbeginningtheyearwithafullreviewofprecalculustopics.Limitsarethe
foundationfordifferentiation(Unit2),integration(Unit6),andinfiniteseries(Unit10)bc
only.Theyarethebasisforimportantdefinitionsandfortheoremsthatareusedtosolve
realisticproblemsinvolvingchangeandtojustifyconclusions.
Building the Mathematical Practices
2.B 2.C 3.C 3.D
Mathematicalinformationmaybeorganizedorpresentedgraphically,numerically,
analytically,orverbally.Mathematiciansmustbeabletocommunicateeffectivelyinallof
thesecontextsandtransitionseamlesslyfromonerepresentationtoanother.Limitslay
thegroundworkforstudents’ongoingdevelopmentofskillsassociatedwithtakingwhat
ispresentedinatable,anequation,orasentenceandtranslatingthatinformationintoa
graph(orviceversa).Helpstudentsexplicitlypracticematchingdifferentrepresentations
thatshowthesameinformation,focusingonbuildingtheircomfortlevelwithtranslating
analyticalandverbalrepresentations.Thiswillbeinstrumentaltotheirdevelopmentof
proficiencyinthispractice.Theuseofgraphingcalculatorstohelpstudentsexplorethese
connectionsisstronglyencouraged.
Mathematicians also explain reasoning and justify conclusions using definitions,
theorems, and tests. A common student misunderstanding is that they don’t need to
write relevant given information before drawing the conclusion of a theorem. In Unit 1,
students should be given explicit instruction and time to practice “connecting the
dots” by first demonstrating that all conditions or hypotheses have been met and
then drawing the conclusion.
Preparing for the AP Exam
Thiscourseisafull-yearexperiencebuildingtowardmasteryassessedusingtheAP
Exam.Therefore,itisimportanttoconsiderbothspecificcontentandskillsrelatedtoeach
unitandtobuildacoherentunderstandingofthewhole.AfterstudyingUnit1,studentswill
beexpectedtoevaluateorestimatelimitspresentedgraphically,numerically,analytically,
orverbally.ToavoidmissedopportunitiestoearnpointsontheAPExam,studentsneed
opportunitiestoconsistentlypracticeusingcorrectmathematicalnotationandpresenting
set-upsandappropriatelyroundedanswerswhenusingacalculator.Twosectionsof
theexamdonotallowcalculatoruse.Somequestionsontheothertwosectionsrequire
it.Fromthefirstunitonward,emphasizetheimportanceofhypothesesfortheorems.
Explorewhyeachhypothesisisneededinordertoensurethattheconclusionfollows.
Studentsshouldestablishthepracticeofexplicitlyverifyingthatatheorem’shypotheses
aresatisfiedbeforeapplyingthetheorem.
Limits and
Continuity
BIG IDEA 1
Change CHA
§ Can change occur at an
instant?
BIG IDEA 2
Limits LIM
§ How does knowing the
value of a limit, or that a
limit does not exist, help
you to make sense of
interesting features of
functions and their graphs?
BIG IDEA 3
Analysis of
Functions FUN
§ How do we close loopholes
so that a conclusion about
a function is always true?
AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework RetuRn to contents 29
NOTE: Labels are used to distinguish each unique element of the required course content and are used throughout this course and exam
description. Additionally, they are used in the AP Question Bank and other resources found in AP Classroom. Enduring understandings
are labeled sequentially according to the big idea that they are related to. Learning objectives are labeled to correspond with the enduring
understanding they relate to. Finally, essential knowledge statements are labeled to correspond with the learning objective they relate to.
BIGIDEA
LIM
Limits
LEARNING
OBJECTIVE
LIM-1.B
Interpret limits expressed in
analytic notation.
ESSENTIAL
KNOWLEDGE
LIM-1.B.1
Alimitcanbeexpressed
inmultipleways,including
graphically,numerically,
andanalytically.
ENDURING
UNDERSTANDING
LIM-1
Reasoningwithdefinitions,
theorems,andproperties
canbeusedtojustifyclaims
aboutlimits.
REQUIRED COURSE CONTENT LABELING SYSTEM
24 AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework return to Contents