ii
What AP
®
Stands For
Thousands of Advanced Placement teachers have contributed to the principles
articulated here. These principles are not new; they are, rather, a reminder of how AP
already works in classrooms nationwide. The following principles are designed to
ensure that teachers’ expertise is respected, required course content is understood,
and students are academically challenged and free to make up their own minds.
1. AP stands for clarity and transparency. Teachers and students deserve clear
expectations. The Advanced Placement Program makes public its course
frameworks and sample assessments. Confusion about what is permitted in the
classroom disrupts teachers and students as they navigate demanding work.
2. AP is an unflinching encounter with evidence. AP courses enable students to
develop as independent thinkers and to draw their own conclusions. Evidence and
the scientific method are the starting place for conversations in AP courses.
3. AP opposes censorship. AP is animated by a deep respect for the intellectual
freedom of teachers and students alike. If a school bans required topics from
their AP courses, the AP Program removes the AP designation from that course
and its inclusion in the AP Course Ledger provided to colleges and universities.
For example, the concepts of evolution are at the heart of college biology, and a
course that neglects such concepts does not pass muster as AP Biology.
4. AP opposes indoctrination. AP students are expected to analyze different
perspectives from their own, and no points on an AP Exam are awarded for
agreement with any specific viewpoint. AP students are not required to feel
certain ways about themselves or the course content. AP courses instead
develop students’ abilities to assess the credibility of sources, draw conclusions,
and make up their own minds.
As the AP English Literature course description states: “AP students are not
expected or asked to subscribe to any one specific set of cultural or political values,
but are expected to have the maturity to analyze perspectives different from their
own and to question the meaning, purpose, or effect of such content within the
literary work as a whole.”
5. AP courses foster an open-minded approach to the histories and cultures
of different peoples. The study of different nationalities, cultures, religions,
races, and ethnicities is essential within a variety of academic disciplines. AP
courses ground such studies in primary sources so that students can evaluate
experiences and evidence for themselves.
6.
7. AP is a choice for parents and students. Parents and students freely choose to
enroll in AP courses. Course descriptions are available online for parents and
students to inform their choice. Parents do not define which college-level topics
are suitable within AP courses; AP course and exam materials are crafted by
committees of professors and other expert educators in each field. AP courses and
exams are then further validated by the American Council on Education and studies
that confirm the use of AP scores for college credits by thousands of colleges and
universities nationwide.
The AP Program encourages educators to review these principles with parents
and students so they know what to expect in an AP course. Advanced Placement is
always a choice, and it should be an informed one. AP teachers should be given the
confidence and clarity that once parents have enrolled their child in an AP course,
they have agreed to a classroom experience that embodies these principles.
© 2026 The Advanced Placement Program, AP, AP Central, and the acorn logo are registered trademarks
of the College Board. All other products and services may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.