Differentiation: Composite, Implicit, and Inverse Functions

UNIT

3

SAMPLE INSTRUCTIONAL 
ACTIVITIES

The sample activities on this page are optional. They were developed in 
partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways that they 
approach teaching some of the topics in this unit.  

Activity
Topic
Sample Activity

1
3.1
Scavenger Hunt
Place a card with a starter question somewhere in the classroom, for example, “Find 
the derivative off of x equals sine 4 x
.” Place another card in the room with the solution to that 
card plus another question: “Solution: 4cos(4x)

f
 of x equals ope n paren sine x close paren to the fourth power

. Next problem: Find the derivative of 
” Continue posting solution cards with new problems until the final card 
presents a problem whose solution is on the original starter card (note that this solution 
should be added to the starter card above).

2
3.1
Work Backward
Provide a chain rule problem with several possible answers. Have students identify 
which piece of the original problem contributed its derivative to one of the factors in 
the answer they are looking at. For each possible answer, students should say whether 
the answer is correct. They should also identify which piece of the composition was 
differentiated incorrectly or skipped, or state which factor of that particular answer did 
not come from the original problem. Students often have trouble knowing when to stop 
differentiating when learninge to the x-th power or trigonometric functions, so make sure you include 
these types of problems.

3
3.2
Round Table
In groups of four, each student has an identical paper with four different problems on it. 
Students complete the first problem on their paper and then pass the paper clockwise 
to another member in their group. That student checks the first problem and then 
completes the second problem on the paper. Students rotate again and the process 
continues until each student has their own paper back.

4
3.4
Quiz-Quiz-Trade
Give students a card containing a question and have them write the answer on the 
back. Students then circulate around the room and find a partner. One student quizzes 
the other by showing only the side of the card with the question on it, and then they 
reverse roles. They swap cards, find a new partner, quiz each other, and the process 
continues.

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
Return to contents
69
