UNIT

3
5–10%_{}_{AB}_{}5–10% _{BC}_{AP EXAM WEIGHTING}
~10–11 AB ~8–9 BC CLASS PERIODS

Developing Understanding

In this unit, students learn how to differentiate composite functions using the chain rule 
and apply that understanding to determine derivatives of implicit and inverse functions. 
Students need to understand that for composite functions, y is a function of u while u 

is a function of x. Leibniz notation for the chain rule, d 

y 

ov
er

 d
 x equals d y over d u times d u over d x

, accounts for these 

relationships. Units analysis can strengthen the connection, as in the

 fr

act

i

o
min

  

Saying, “times the derivative of what’s inside,” every time we apply the chain rule 

reminds students to avoid a common error.  Mastering the chain rule is essential to 
success in all future units. 

Building the Mathematical Practices

1.C
1.E
3.G 

Identifying composite and implicit functions is a key differentiation skill.  Students must 
recognize functions embedded in functions and be able to decompose composite 
functions into their “outer” and “inner” component functions. Misapplying the chain 
rule by forgetting to also differentiate the “inner” function or misidentifying the “inner” 
function are common errors. Provide sample responses that demonstrate these 
errors to help students be mindful of them in their own work. Reinforcing the chain rule 
structure sets the stage for Unit 6, when students learn the inverse of this process.

Students should continue to practice using correct notation and applying procedures 
accurately. Checking one another’s work, reviewing sample responses (with and 
without errors), and using technology to check calculations develop these skills. 
Emphasize that taking higher-order derivatives mirrors familiar differentiation 
processes (i.e., “function is to first derivative as first derivative is to second derivative”). 
Use questioning techniques such as, “What does this mean?” to help students develop 
a more solid conceptual understanding of higher-order differentiation.

Preparing for the AP Exam 

Mastery of the chain rule and its applications is essential for success on the AP Exam. 
The chain rule will be the target of assessment for many questions and a necessary 
step along the way for others. One common error is not recognizing when the chain 

rule applies, especially in composite functions such as sin

e
 raised to the x squared power . In 
squared x, tanopen paren 2 x minus 1 close paren, and 

expressions like 
t
he fraction with numerator y and denominator 3 y squared minus 
x

, students must recognize that the chain rule applies to y 

because y depends on x. When multiple rules apply, students may struggle with the 
order of operations. Offer mixed practice differentiating general functions using select 
values provided in tables and graphs. Focus on products, quotients, compositions, 
and inverses of functions, especially those with names other than f and g. Connecting 
graphs, tables, and algebraic reasoning builds understanding of differentiation of 
inverse functions.

Differentiation: 
Composite, Implicit, and 
Inverse Functions

BIG IDEA 3
Analysis of
Functions 

  

FUN
Bullet If pressure experienced 

by a diver is a function 
of depth and depth is a 
function of time, how might 
we find the rate of change 
in pressure with respect to 
time? 

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
Return to contents
67
