Limits and Continuity
UNIT
1
SAMPLE INSTRUCTIONAL
ACTIVITIES
The sample activities on this page are optional. They were developed in
partnership with teachers from the AP community to share ways that they
approach teaching some of the topics in this unit.
Activity Topic Sample Activity
1 1.2 Notation Read Aloud
Begin by writing a limit expression in analytical form (e.g., lim x3
), and then read the
expression aloud to the class: “The limit of xcubed as xappr
x→0-
oaches 0 from the left.”
Do the same for 1–2 additional examples that use a variety of limit notations (e.g.,
the symbol for infinity). Then have students pair up and take turns reading aloud
different limit expressions to one another.
2 1.3
1.4
Create Representations
Present students with a limit expression in analytical form (e.g.,
x2
-9
lim
x→3 x -3
),
and then have them translate that expression into a variety of representations:
constructing a graph, creating a table of values, and writing it as a verbal expression.
Then have students check their graphs and tables using technology.
3 1.7 Work Backward
Presentstudentswithasetoflimitproblems.Ratherthandeterminingthegiven
limits,havethemmakealistofthevariousstrategiesthatwouldbeusedtodetermine
thelimits(e.g.,factoring,multiplyingbyconjugate,andsimplifyusingtrigonometric
identities).Afterconfirmingtheirlistiscomplete,havestudentsworkinpairstocreate
andwritelimitproblems,eachrequiringoneofthelistedstrategies.Thenhavethem
swapproblemswithanotherpairofstudentstocompleteeachother’sproblems.
4 1.11 Discussion Groups
Give each group of students a piecewise-defined function, a graph paper, and a
list of x-values. Have them graph the function, then discuss whether the function
is continuous or discontinuous at each x-value, and explain why. Ask students to
take turns recording the group’s conclusion for each x-value. If continuous, have
students discuss and show that all three continuity conditions are satisfied. If
discontinuous, have students state which condition was not satisfied.
5 1.16 Think Aloud
In small groups, have students discuss the Intermediate Value Theorem and share
ideas about real-world applications (e.g., speed of your car and weight of your
kitten). Have groups post their ideas on a classroom wall using sticky notes.
32 AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework return to Contents