UNIT

5
15–20%_{}_{AB}_{}10–15% _{BC}_{AP EXAM WEIGHTING} ~15–16_{}_{AB}_{}~10–11 _{BC}_{CLASS PERIODS}

Developing Understanding

In this unit, the superficial details of contextual applications of differentiation are stripped 
away to focus on abstract structures and formal conclusions. Reasoning with definitions 
and theorems establishes that answers and conclusions are more than conjectures; 
they have been analytically determined. As when students showed supporting work for 
answers in previous units, students will learn to present justifications for their conclusions 
about the behavior of functions over certain intervals or the locations of extreme values 
or points of inflection. The unit concludes this study of differentiation by applying abstract 
reasoning skills to justify solutions for realistic optimization problems. 

Building the Mathematical Practices

1.E
2.D
2.E 3.E

The underlying processes of finding critical points and extrema are the foundation 
for the justifications students will write in this unit. Students should use calculators 
to graph a function and its derivatives to explore the related features of these 
graphs and confirm the results of their calculations.

Students often struggle with misinterpreting the characteristics of the graph of a 
derivative as though they are characteristics of the original function. Or, they use 
nonspecific language that conflates different functions (e.g., “it” rather than “f” ). To 
prevent ongoing misconceptions, hold students accountable for extreme precision by 
having them practice matching graphs of functions to their derivatives and requiring 
them to explain their reasons to a peer.

Students also tend to rely on insufficient evidence or descriptions in their justifications, 
stating, for example, that “the graph of f is increasing because it’s going up.” This happens 
especially when examining derivative graphs on a calculator. Model calculus-based 
justifications (i.e., reasoning based on analysis of a derivative) both in discussion and in 
writing. Give students repeated opportunities to practice writing and revising their own 
justifications based on teacher feedback and feedback from their peers.

Preparing for the AP Exam 

Sound reasoning must be accompanied by clear communication on the AP Exam. It may 
be helpful for students to use the language in the question as a starting point. Suppose 
a question asks, “Does g have a relative minimum, a relative maximum, or neither at 
x =10? Justify your answer.” A student who writes, “g has neither a relative maximum 
nor a relative minimum at x =10, because . . . ,” has begun well. Similarly, given a graph of 
the derivative, f’, of a function, f ,it is safer and easier for students to make arguments 
about f based directly on the graph of the derivative, as in, “f is concave up ona i
s
 less than x is less than 
b
because the graph of f’ is increasing on a 
i
s
 less than x is less than b
b Students are expected to refer to f , 
f’, and f’’ by name, rather than by “it” or “the function,” which may leave the reader unsure 
of their intended meaning.

Analytical Applications 
of Differentiation

BIG IDEA 3
Analysis of  
Functions  FUN

	Bullet How might the Mean Value 

Theorem be used to justify 
a conclusion that you 
were speeding at some 
point on a certain stretch 
of highway, even without 
knowing the exact time you 
were speeding?

Bullet What additional information 

is included in a sound 
mathematical argument 
about optimization that a 
simple description of an 
equivalent answer lacks?

AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework 
return to Contents
91
