AP Calculus AB and BC return to Contents 7
About the AP Calculus
AB and BC Courses
AP Calculus AB and AP Calculus BC focus on students’ understanding of calculus
concepts and provide experience with methods and applications. Through the
use of big ideas of calculus (e.g., modeling change, approximation and limits, and
analysis of functions), each course becomes a cohesive whole, rather than a
collection of unrelated topics. Both courses require students to use definitions and
theorems to build arguments and justify conclusions.
The courses feature a multirepresentational approach to calculus, with concepts,
results, and problems expressed graphically, numerically, analytically, and verbally.
Exploring connections among these representations builds understanding of
how calculus applies limits to develop important ideas, definitions, formulas, and
theorems. A sustained emphasis on clear communication of methods, reasoning,
justifications, and conclusions is essential. Teachers and students should regularly
use technology to reinforce relationships among functions, to confirm written
work, to implement experimentation, and to assist in interpreting results.
College Course Equivalent
APCalculusABisdesignedtobetheequivalentofafirstsemestercollegecalculus
course devoted to topics in differential and integral calculus. AP Calculus BC is
designed to be the equivalent to both first and second semester college calculus
courses. APCalculus BC applies the content and skills learned in APCalculus AB to
parametrically defined curves, polar curves, and vector-valued functions; develops
additional integration techniques and applications; and introduces the topics of
sequences and series.
Prerequisites
Before studying calculus, all students should complete the equivalent of four years
of secondary mathematics designed for college-bound students: courses that
should prepare them with a strong foundation in reasoning with algebraic symbols
and working with algebraic structures. Prospective calculus students should take
courses in which they study algebra, geometry, trigonometry, analytic geometry,
and elementary functions. These functions include linear, polynomial, rational,
exponential, logarithmic, trigonometric, inverse trigonometric, and piecewise-
defined functions. In particular, before studying calculus, students must be familiar
with the properties of functions, the composition of functions, the algebra of
functions, and the graphs of functions.
Students must also understand the language of functions (domain and range, odd
andeven,periodic,symmetry,zeros,intercepts,anddescriptorssuchasincreasing
and decreasing). Students should also know how the sine and cosine functions are
defined from the unit circle and know the values of the trigonometric functions at
the numbers
π π π
0, , , , ,
6 4 3
π
2
and their multiples. Students who take AP Calculus BC
are expected to have basic familiarity with sequences and series, as well as some
exposure to parametric and polar equations.