UNIT
10 15–20%
BC AP EXAM WEIGHTING ~17–18BC CLASSPERIODS
Developing Understanding
Inthisunit,studentsneedtounderstandthatasumofinfinitelymanytermsmayconverge
toafinitevalue.Theycandevelopintuitionbyexploringgraphs,tables,andsymbolic
expressionsforseriesthatconvergeanddivergeandforTaylorpolynomials.Students
shouldbuildconnectionstopastlearning,suchashowevaluatingimproperintegrals
relatestotheintegraltestorhowusinglimitingcasesofpowerseriestorepresent
continuousfunctionsrelatestodifferentiationandintegration.Studentswhorelysolely
onmemorizingalonglistoftestsandprocedurestypicallyfindlittlesuccessachievinga
lastingconceptualunderstandingofseries.
Building the Mathematical Practices
1.E 1.F 2.C 3.D
In Unit 10, students will need to develop proficiency with complex series notation and
the ability to communicate their reasoning. Emphasize appropriate use of notation,
precision of language, and establishing conditions for using a particular test. Remind
students that a sound justification relies upon both mathematical evidence and
reasons why that evidence supports the conclusion.
Additionally, students will need to practice determining which application is
appropriate for different scenarios (for example, using the definitions of harmonic
or p-series to classify certain infinite series) and then applying associated
procedures accurately. Students will also need to practice using Taylor polynomials
to approximate the value of a function, choosing and implementing an appropriate
method to bound the error involved in the approximation, and effectively
communicating supporting work.
Connecting representations is an important skill to develop in this unit. For example,
students will need to identify infinite power series to represent functions presented
symbolically or move between graphic and symbolic representations of an interval
of convergence.
Preparing for the AP Exam
Students are more likely to demonstrate an incomplete understanding of series or
to struggle with communicating their understanding of it compared to other topics.
Continue to model and expect correct notation and language to present solutions,
explain reasoning, and justify conclusions. For example, using the ratio test to find
a radius of convergence, or operating on a known series to create another series,
requires proficient, well-presented algebra. Applying a convergence test requires
explicit verification that all necessary conditions are met. Determining that a given
number is an error bound requires calculating an appropriate value and communicating
that the value is less than the given number.
Intentional focus on the recurrent theme of using limiting cases to move from discrete
approximations to analytic calculations and determinations is one way to help
students to finish the year with a strong performance on the AP Exam and to come
away with an enduring, meaningful understanding of calculus.
Infinite Sequences and
Series
BIG IDEA 1
Limits LIM
§ How can the sum of
infinitely many discrete
terms be a finite value or
represent a continuous
function?
AP Calculus AB and BC · Course Framework return to Contents 177