AP Calculus AB and BC 
return to Contents
3

How AP Exams Are Scored

The exam scoring process, like the course and exam development process, relies 
on the expertise of both AP teachers and college faculty. While multiple-choice 
questions are scored by machine, the free-response questions and through-
course performance assessments, as applicable, are scored by thousands of 
college faculty and expert AP teachers. Most are scored at the annual AP Reading, 
while a small portion is scored online. All AP Readers are thoroughly trained, and 
their work is monitored throughout the Reading for fairness and consistency. In 
each subject, a highly respected college faculty member serves as Chief Faculty 
Consultant and, with the help of AP Readers in leadership positions, maintains the 
accuracy of the scoring standards. Scores on the free-response questions and 
performance assessments are weighted and combined with the results of the 
computer-scored multiple-choice questions, and this raw score is converted into a 
composite AP score on a 1–5 scale. 

AP Exams are not norm referenced or graded on a curve. Instead, they are criterion 
referenced, which means that every student who meets the criteria for an AP score 
of 2, 3, 4, or 5 will receive that score, no matter how many students that is. The 
criteria for the number of points students must earn on the AP Exam to receive 
scores of 3, 4, or 5—the scores that research consistently validates for credit and 
placement purposes—include:

	Bullet The number of points successful college students earn when their professors 

administer AP Exam questions to them

	Bullet Performance that researchers have found to be predictive of an AP student 

succeeding when placed into a subsequent higher-level college course

	Bullet The number of points college faculty indicate, after reviewing each AP 

question, that they expect is necessary to achieve each AP grade level

Using and Interpreting AP Scores

The extensive work done by college faculty and AP teachers in the development 
of the course and exam and throughout the scoring process ensures that AP 
Exam scores accurately represent students’ achievement in the equivalent college 
course. Frequent and regular research studies establish the validity of AP scores 
as follows:

AP Score
Credit Recommendation
College Grade Equivalent

5
Extremely well qualified
A

4
Well qualified
A-, B+, B

3
Qualified
B-, C+, C

2
Possibly qualified
n/a

1
No recommendation
n/a

While colleges and universities are responsible for setting their own credit and 
placement policies, most private colleges and universities award credit and/or 
advanced placement for AP scores of 3 or higher. Additionally, most states in the 
U.S. have adopted statewide credit policies that ensure college credit for scores of 
3 or higher at public colleges and universities. To confirm a specific college’s AP 
credit/placement policy, use the search engine available on the AP Credit Policy 
Search page.
