AP® Calculus AB/BC 2021 Scoring Commentary 

Question 4 (continued) 

Sample: 4B 
Score: 6 

The response earned 6 points: 1 global point, 1 point in part (a), 2 points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and no 
points in part (d). The global point was earned in part (a) with the statement G x
f 
x . In part (a) the response 
earned the point with the presentation of the correct intervals and the reason that G is increasing. In part (b) the 
response earned the first point with the correct product rule in the second line. The second point was earned with the 
value of G3 as 3 in the fourth line. Note that the incorrect value of G
3 did not affect this point because only 
one correct value of G3 or G3 is required. The third point was not earned due to the incorrect final answer. In 
part (c) the first point was earned with the arrows pointing from the numerator and denominator to the value 0 and 
by the ratio of derivatives. The second point was earned with the correct ratio of derivatives accompanied by limit 
notation and the correct answer. In part (d) the first point was not earned because the average rate of change 
presented is not correct (denominator should be 2 

)
4
. Because this is not a valid average rate of change form, 
the response is not eligible for the second point. 

Sample: 4C 
Score: 4 

The response earned 4 points: 1 global point, 1 point in part (a), 2 points in part (b), no points in part (c), and no 
points in part (d). The global point was earned in the third line of part (a) with the statement f x
G


x . In  
part (a) the response earned the point with the presentation of the correct intervals and the reason “when f x 
increasing, then G x
 concave up.” In part (b) the response earned the first point with the correct product rule in 
the second line. The second point was earned for the correct value for G3. The value for G3 is incorrect, but 
only one correct value is necessary for this point. The third point was not earned because the final answer is 
incorrect. In part (c) the response did not earn the first point because there is no evidence of lim G x
0
x2
 or 

lim 

_{2}x
x
2 2
0
x

 given. The second point was not earned because the ratio of derivatives does not have  limit 

notation. In part (d) the response did not earn the first point because there is not an attempt to calculate the average 
rate of change of G. The response is not eligible for the second point. 

© 2021 College Board.  
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org. 
