AP®
Calculus AB/BC 2021 Scoring Commentary
© 2021 College Board.
Visit College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.
Question 4
Note: Student samples are quoted verbatim and may contain spelling and grammatical errors.
Overview
In this problem the graph of a piecewise linear continuous function f for   4 x  6 is provided. It is also
given that G x 
x
 
0
 f t dt.
In part (a) students were asked to provide the open intervals on which the graph of G is concave up. A correct
response would use the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus to note that G f   , and then report the two intervals
where G f   is increasing.
In part (b) the function P x    Gx f x  is defined and students were asked to find P3. A correct response
would use the product rule to find an expression for P x  , then use the graph of f to find numerical values of
f   3 and f 3, and use the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus to find G3 and G3. The response would
substitute these values into the expression for P x   to provide the value of P3.
In part (c) students were asked to find
G x  
lim
x2 2
x  2x
. A correct response would use L’Hospital’s Rule to find the
limit after verifying that the limits of both the numerator and denominator are zero.
In part (d) students were asked to find the average rate of change of G on the interval 4, 2 and whether the
Mean Value Theorem guarantees a value c, 4   c  2, with G c   equal to this average rate of change. A
correct response would determine the average rate of change as a difference quotient,
G2   
2    
4
4
G 
, with
values G2  0 and G  4 16 found as areas under the graph of f. The response should then conclude that
the Mean Value Theorem does guarantee such a value of c because G f   is differentiable and, therefore,
continuous on the given interval.
Sample: 4A
Score: 9
The response earned 9 points: 1 global point, 1 point in part (a), 3 points in part (b), 2 points in part (c), and 2 points
in part (d). The global point was earned in the first line of part (a) with the statement G x    f   x . In part (a) the
response earned the point with the presentation of the correct intervals and the reason “ f   x which is equal to G x  
has a positive slope/is increasing.” In part (b) the response earned the first point with the correct product rule
presentation in the first line. The second point was earned for the correct values for both G3 and G  3 although
only one correct value was necessary for this point. The third point was earned with the expression
7
    3 3  1
2. Simplification of this expression is not necessary. In part (c) the response earned the first point
with the extended equation of limits in the first line and the ratio of derivatives in the second line. The second point
was earned with the correct ratio of derivatives accompanied by limit notation and the correct (unsimplified) answer.
In part (d) the response earned the first point for a valid attempt to calculate the average rate of change of G and a
correct result. The second point was earned with the answer, “The mean value theorem does guarantee a value c ,”
and the statement that G x   is both differentiable and continuous.