AP Calculus BC Exam – AP Central | College Board

The Exam

AP Calculus BC

Sign In to AP Classroom

Article

Review the Free-Response Questions from the AP Exam

Clarifications and Exam Updates for 2026-27

The AP Calculus AB and BC Course and Exam Description has been updated to include minor clarifications for the 2026-27 school year. These clarifications reflect feedback from AP Calculus teachers and are designed to improve mathematical clarity and exam administration. Course content has not changed.
The number of multiple-choice questions and the timing on the AP Calculus AB and BC Exams have also been updated. The updates will be effective starting with the May 2027 exams.

Learn More (.pdf)

Exam Overview

This is a hybrid digital exam. Students complete multiple-choice questions and view free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app. They handwrite their free-response answers in paper exam booklets that are returned for scoring.
Exam questions assess the course concepts and skills outlined in the course framework. For more information, download the AP Calculus AB and BC Course and Exam Description (.pdf) (CED).
Encourage your students to visit the AP Calculus BC student page for exam information.

Exam Date

Mon, May 10, 2027 | Session 1

AP Calculus BC Exam

Get Details About Start Times

Exam Format

The AP Calculus BC Exam has consistent question types, weighting, and scoring guidelines every year, so you and your students know what to expect on exam day.
Section I: Multiple Choice
42 Questions | 1 Hour 40 Minutes | 50% of Exam Score
Part A: 29 questions; 62 minutes (calculator not permitted).
Part B: 13 questions; 38 minutes (graphing calculator required).
Questions include algebraic, exponential, logarithmic, trigonometric, and general types of functions.
Questions include analytical, graphical, tabular, and verbal types of representations.

Section II: Free Response
6 Questions | 1 Hour 30 Minutes | 50% of Exam Score
Part A: 2 questions; 30 minutes (graphing calculator required).
Part B: 4 questions; 60 minutes (calculator not permitted).
Questions include various types of functions and function representations and a roughly equal mix of procedural and conceptual tasks.
Questions include at least two questions that incorporate a real-world context or scenario into the question.

Test Previews for Digital AP Exams

Link

Practice on Bluebook

Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.

Sample Free-Response Booklet

A sample free-response booklet is available for this hybrid digital exam. Prior to exam day, share it with students to build familiarity with how they will answer the free-response questions on the exam.

Article

Hybrid Digital AP Exams

Review information about hybrid digital AP Exams and find sample free-response booklets for specific subjects.

AP Calculator Policy

Calculators are permitted for this course’s exam. Review the calculator policy information for exam day.

Article

AP Exams Calculator Policy

Review calculator policy information and the list of calculators that are permitted on exam day.

Exam Questions and Scoring information

Article

AP Calculus BC Exam Questions and Scoring Information

Review free-response questions and scoring information from past exams.

Score Reporting

Link

AP Score Reports for Educators

Access your score reports.
