AP Calculus BC Exam – AP Students | College Board

AP Calculus BC

Learn all about the course and exam. Already enrolled? Join your class in My AP.

Go to My AP

Interested in Taking This Course?

Not a Student?

Go
to AP Central for resources for teachers, administrators, and coordinators.

AP Calculus BC

Go to My AP

About
the Exam

The AP Calculus BC Exam will test your understanding of the mathematical concepts covered in the course units, as well as your ability to determine the proper formulas and procedures to use to solve problems and communicate your work with the correct notations. Note: You may not take both AP Calculus AB and Calculus BC Exams within the same year.
This is a hybrid digital exam. You’ll complete multiple-choice questions and view free-response questions in the Bluebook testing app. You’ll handwrite your free-response answers in paper exam booklets.
Calculators are permitted for this exam. See AP Exams Calculator Policy for the list of calculators approved for this course.

Exam Duration

3hrs 10mins

Exam
Date

Mon, May 10, 2027 | Session 1

AP Calculus BC Exam

Your AP coordinator will tell you when and where the exam will be administered.

Exam Components

Expand All
Collapse All

Section I: Multiple Choice

42 questions

1hr 40mins

50% of Score

Part A: 29 questions | Graphing calculator not permitted (35% of score)
Part B: 13 questions | Graphing calculator required for some questions (15% of score)
Questions include algebraic, exponential, logarithmic, trigonometric, and general types of functions.
Questions include analytical, graphical, tabular, and verbal types of representations.

Section II: Free Response

6 questions

1hr 30mins

50% of Score

Part A: 2 problems | Graphing calculator required (16.7% of score)
Part B: 4 problems | Graphing calculator not permitted (33.3% of score)
Questions include various types of functions and function representations and a roughly equal mix of procedural and conceptual tasks.
Questions include at least two questions that incorporate a real-world context or scenario into the question.

Exam
Essentials

See Exam Day Policies

Read About Accommodations

See Calculator Policies

Exam
Preparation

Link

AP Classroom Resources

Once you join your AP class section in My AP, you can access AP Classroom. Depending on your course, you’ll find class assignments, practice materials, and assessments that will familiarize you with the Bluebook app prior to exam day.

Go to AP Classroom

Link

Practice on Bluebook

Download the Bluebook app and log in with your College Board account information to access test previews for the digital AP Exams.

Link

Free-Response Questions and Scoring Information

Go to AP Central to review free-response questions and scoring information from past AP Calculus BC exams.

Download

AP Calculus AB and BC Course and Exam Description

This is the core document for the course. It clearly lays out the course content and describes the exam and AP Program in general.

PDF

Link

Services for Students with Disabilities

Students with documented disabilities may be eligible for accommodations for the through-course assessment and the end-of-course exam. If you’re using assistive technology and need help accessing the PDFs in this section in another format, contact Services for Students with Disabilities at 866-630-9305 or by email at [email protected]. For information about taking AP Exams, or other College Board assessments, with accommodations, visit the Services for Students with Disabilities website.

Credit and Placement

Search AP Credit Policies

Find colleges that grant credit and/or placement for AP Exam scores in this and other AP courses.

Start a Search

Additional Information
