AP®
CALCULUS AB/CALCULUS BC
2019 SCORING COMMENTARY
Question 1
Note: Student samples are quoted verbatim and may contain spelling and grammatical errors.
Overview
In this problem, fish enter and leave a lake at rates modeled by functions E and L given by
t
E t    20 15sin
6   and  
2
L t 4 20.1t
  , respectively. Both E  t and L t   are measured in fish per hour,
and t is measured in hours since midnight t  0.
In part (a) students were asked to find the number of fish entering the lake between midnight t  0 and 5 A.M.
t  5 and to provide the answer rounded to the nearest whole number. A response should demonstrate an
understanding that a definite integral of the rate at which fish enter the lake over the time interval 0  t 5  gives
the number of fish that enter the lake during that time period. The numerical value of the integral
5
 E  t dt
0
should be obtained using a graphing calculator.
In part (b) students were asked for the average number of fish that leave the lake per hour over the 5-hour period
0   t 5. A response should demonstrate that “number of fish per hour” is a rate, so the question is asking for
the average value of L t   across the interval 0   t 5, found by dividing the definite integral of L across the
interval by the width of the interval. The numerical value of the expression
1 5
  t
5  L t d
0
should be obtained using
a graphing calculator.
In part (c) students were asked to find, with justification, the time t in the interval 0   t 8 when the population
of fish in the lake is greatest. The key understanding here is that the rate of change of the number of fish in the
lake, in number of fish per hour, is given by the difference Et  L  t . Analysis of this difference using a
graphing calculator shows that, for 0   t 8, the difference has exactly one sign change, occurring at
t  6.20356. Before this time, E t    Lt  0, so the number of fish in the lake is increasing; after this time,
E t  L t  0     , so the number of fish in the lake is decreasing. Thus the number of fish in the lake is greatest at
t  6.204 (or 6.203). An alternative justification uses the definite integral of Et    L t over an interval
starting at t  0 to find the net change in the number of fish in the lake from time t  0. The candidates for when
the fish population is greatest are the endpoints of the time interval 0   t 8 and the one time when
E t    L  t  0, namely t  6.20356. Numerical evaluation of the appropriate definite integrals on a graphing
calculator shows that the number of fish in the lake is greatest at t  6.204 (or 6.203).
In part (d) students were asked whether the rate of change in the number of fish in the lake is increasing or
decreasing at time t  5. A response should again demonstrate the understanding that the rate of change of the
number of fish in the lake is given by the difference Et  L  t , and whether this rate is increasing or decreasing
at time t  5 can be determined by the sign of the derivative of the difference at that time. Using a graphing
calculator to find that E  5  L5  0 leads to the conclusion that the rate of change in the number of fish in
the lake is decreasing at time t  5.
© 2019 The College Board.
Visit the College Board on the web: collegeboard.org.